let allQuotes = `Our normal way of being is not to be unconditional but ‘conditional’ – which means that I give myself the message “You will be OK if you meet such-and-such a standard”. This is being the ‘judgemental witness of my own my life’! Being the compassionate witness, on the other hand, means that there are no special conditions to be met before I am allowed to think that I am OK. Being the compassionate witness of my own life means realizing that it is OK to be the way that I am, no matter what way I am…
It is the limit of my responsibility to myself to be myself – to be myself ‘as I actually am’, not as I’d like to be. My true responsibility to myself is not to change myself or control myself or regulate myself in accordance with society’s laws. Neither is it to beat myself up for being different to the way I think I ought to be, or different to the way others think I should be. My only true responsibility is to be ‘the compassionate witness of my own life’.
We pretty much never witness our own lives because we are much too caught up in wanting ourselves to be more deserving, to be more worthy of actually being here on this planet. We never allow ourselves to be the way that we are because we are always far too busy trying to be some kind of ‘new, improved version of ourselves’!
If I say that it is me that writes myself off as a worthless or crappy person, then how come I place so much credence in my ability to know ‘how things should be’? If I’m such a hopeless idiot then why do I believe myself when I tell myself that I’m a hopeless idiot! How come I have the right to be so omniscient or all-knowing as to judge myself so absolutely if this is the case? Where is the logic in this? Either I’m stupid or I’m not stupid, but I can’t be both at the same time! If I am going to ‘write myself off’ so totally, then this necessarily means (if there is any sense at all to what I am doing) that I should also ‘write off my right to write myself off’. If I am going to doubt anything, then I should surely doubt the meaningfulness of my own self-evaluations.
food for prayer
In reality of course it is not I who am judging and condemning myself but the internalized opinion of others, the internalized negative evaluations of others who have judged and condemned me in the past, which is doing the judging. It is ‘received opinions’ of others, of society we live in. We could also say that the constant judging comes about because the people around me, my parents and so on, simply failed to love me, and failed to accord me thereby ‘the right to be there’. To a child this failure to love is automatically taken as a judgment in itself – I take it as meaning that I do not have any value, or that I’ve done something wrong, something inexcusable, and so I internalize this ‘opinion’.
But then even these people, whoever they were, whether they actively judged and criticized me, or simply failed to love me unconditionally, were not being their true selves at the time. If they were being their ‘true selves’ at the time then they would have been compassionate and loving, rather than being policemen or policewomen, or judges, or critics; rather than being ‘the non-compassionate witness’. The truth is that they were just being helplessly ruled by their own internalized judges and critics (their own ‘introjects’) just as I am now being helplessly ruled by mine, just as we are all helplessly ruled by our ‘conditioning’.
contagious infection from one generation to the other, where we are all taken over by the internalized judge or policeman, where we are all controlled by this malign introject (or ‘non-compassionate witness’) that has somehow gotten into our heads. This introject isn’t a human being, it’s a mechanical pattern of reacting and thinking, a type of self-replicating virus of the mind, that gets passively ‘handed on’ from one generation to another; it is something that gets ‘passed on’ because we don’t know what else to do with it. It’s a programme that we keep on enacting because we can’t see it for what it is.
Every generation that has been affected by the virus of ‘conditional acceptance’ or ‘non-compassionate judging’ will spread it on to the next because they don’t know what else to do…
There is something else that we can do, however. We don’t have to keep on reproducing the same old pattern. There is something that we can do with this unforgiving ‘evaluating and condemning attitude’ other than just passing it on to others, or continuing to use it on ourselves. We can compassionately witness ourselves and others suffering from this attitude and being the helpless slaves of it. We can find the courage to see what is going on instead of just reacting blindly to the pain, and then automatically justifying our reactions to ourselves. We can find the strength to compassionately witness (without blaming or recrimination or anger) the judging mechanical attitude that is the root of all our suffering and unkindness, and through the gentle power of this ‘compassionate witnessing’ its suffocating, crushing, life-denying hold on us will at first be weakened, and then finally broken completely.
What we very rarely realize is that when we feel bad, it is our thinking that keeps us feeling bad, despite the fact that the reason for our thinking is to try to help ourselves extricate ourselves from the pain.
We do not generally have any insight into the way in which we are making things worse for ourselves – in fact quite the opposite is true because as we have just said we believe that the thinking is helping us.
The emotional pain that I am experiencing acts as the trigger for the thinking (or mental maneuvering) that follows it. First comes the mental pain (whatever it is) and then comes my reaction, which is in essence my futile attempt to free myself from this pain, or at least make it more acceptable or palatable to me. In practice the original bad feeling and the mass of thinking that surrounds it is all very murky and cloudy and confused.
What makes it particularly hard for us to see what is going on as we spin the web of thoughts that envelops us is the curious relationship we have with our thoughts – it is if our thoughts are so close to us that we can’t actually see them for what they are.
This lack of confidence in the effectiveness of all my possible solutions to the problem doesn’t mean that I give up however – far from it in fact because the bad feeling causes me to worry even more.
Of course if I am feeling very fearful or very anxious it is going to be very unlikely that I can just all of a sudden notice my mental state rather than reacting to it – but if I practice ‘noticing how I am feeling without thinking about how I am feeling’ on a regular basis with less overwhelming feelings and emotions then it becomes possible to work in the same way with stronger feelings.
It's okay to start with small to practice.
Something happens, and I straightaway think, “That shouldn’t be happening…” But what kind of a thing to think is that? Something happens and I think that it shouldn’t have happened. This certainly doesn’t get me anywhere, and it doesn’t help me in the least, so why do I do it? The obvious reason is that I can’t get beyond my automatic objection to reality: things are a certain way and I can’t get over the fact that they are that way.
It helps a lot to pay careful attention to the sort of thinking that we engage in when we feel bad. It helps because when we actually pay attention to our automatic thoughts we see that they are not only a waste of time, but also that they are detrimental to us.
if we aren’t free from our neurotic thoughts then the reason is that we still believe that these thoughts can help us escape from our predicament. As we keep saying, neurotic thinking can’t help us, and in fact it is the neurotic thinking that creates the predicament in the first place.
The automatic thinking that sets in when we start to feel bad is our way of trying to escape the unwanted feelings.
The neurotic pattern of thinking is how we try to ‘wangle it’. If this escape attempt actually worked then that would be okay but the thing is that not only does our attempt to escape pain by thinking in a particular way about it not work, it actually works against us.
When we see that we are deceiving ourselves with our thinking then we are no longer deceiving ourselves, and so we are free from the captivating ‘spell’ of the thinking.
natural (unforced) process of disillusionment:
When we see neurotic thinking for what it is, then we are naturally disillusioned with our thinking, and when we are disillusioned with our thinking then this means that we no longer believe in its power to help us.
I can’t actually force myself to stop all the thinking that I automatically engage in when I feel bad. If I noticed the fact that I am thinking (or worrying) automatically and then reacted to this by thinking, “It isn’t right that I should be thinking thoughts like this” then this in itself would be a futile automatic thought.
When I say to myself that I ‘have to’ face fear this makes me afraid of what might happen if I don’t face the fear; in other words, if I make facing fear into a rule by saying to myself “I have to face the fear” then this instantly sets me up to be anxious.
The more important it is to me that I succeed at the task, then the more I will fear not succeeding, and so making a task more and more important to me will only increase the underlying level of fear.
The way that anxiety works is that I keep trying to bury my doubt by positively (i.e. forcefully) asserting to myself that I will be able to succeed. This may make me feel a bit better for a while, but the fact that I am trying to believe so hard that I can succeed is of course proof of my underlying lack of belief: if I have to say (and keep on saying) that “everything is okay” all this proves is that I want very badly to believe that everything is okay, and if I want so badly to believe it, then obviously I have my doubts. If it matters so very much to me that everything should be okay, then this straightaway means that I am very much afraid of the possibility that everything will not be okay, and it this unspoken fear that lies behind my so-called ‘positive thinking’.
After all, the whole idea of winning versus losing only makes sense to me because I want to be in control, because I am afraid of ‘taking a risk’. What I call ‘winning’ is where I successfully avoid taking a risk, and what I call ‘losing’ is where I fail to avoid the risk.
If I make a task out of overcoming anxiety this is not going to be at all helpful in the long run. In the short-term, it may give me a false feeling of security just so long as I am able to convince myself that I will be able to succeed, but before very long the buried doubt (or fear) will come back to the surface and I will be right back where I started.
Making a task out of overcoming anxiety only perpetuates anxiety.
when I ask what I can do to overcome anxiety I am straightaway asking the wrong question because I am looking for a method, and a method is a ‘recommended way to accomplish a task’ and so again I am making a task out of overcoming anxiety.
what is helpful? What is the alternative? The answer has to do with this idea of ‘allowing problems’ that we talked about right back at the beginning of this discussion.
The answer therefore is to get better at allowing the problem to actually be there without doing anything about it.
allowing the problems that worry us simply to be there without doing anything about them is a courageous (i.e. difficult) thing to so. Doing nothing is the ‘radical alternative’.
This is hard work – it is equivalent to going to a gym and working out. If I want to get fit I don’t suddenly go into a gym and try to lift the heaviest possible weights, and similarly if I want to get better at allowing problems to be there I don’t try to take on the world all in one go. I just pick a relatively small problem and notice it being there for a while without either trying to do anything about it, or thinking about how I could do something about it.
This sounds a bit like a task, but it isn’t because in a task I have a definite idea about what I want to happen, and in this I don’t. I’m not aiming for an outcome, I’m just letting things be – I am seeing what happens when I ‘let things go’.
Letting go is where I let whatever it is that is going to happen, happen. It has nothing to do with what I want or don’t want – essentially, what happens is ‘none of my business’. It’s not my job to make something happen, all I have to do is see what happens and this is where the ‘risk-taking’ comes in.
Bringing light to repressed pain has a short-term ‘disadvantage’ in that is frightening and challenging and we fear that we are going to be totally engulfed or overwhelmed by it.
The long term advantage of mindfulness is that the dense mass of negativity slowly shrinks and dissolves – it gradually (but inevitably) becomes lighter and as a result has less power to distort our lives with its hidden influence.
The sun shines without expectation or judgment and it shines equally on everything. What the sun shines on, it nourishes. When the sun shines on a plant or a seed it is not pressurizing the seed to sprout, or coercing the plant to grow. There is no ‘moral blackmail’ going on!
The sun doesn’t harangue the plants when they don’t grow fast enough or cajole or threaten the seed when it doesn’t sprout on time. It doesn’t condemn the plant if the plant doesn’t grow, or try to make it feel bad. Neither does it blame the seed for wasting its time if the seed doesn’t send forth new life.
The sun just shines, and what it shines on grows because there is no pressure, no agenda, no judgement or expectation.
In the same way, the core of painful feelings that is in us does not dissolve and transform into something else because we are trying to make it go away, because we are trying to get it to be something else, but because we are unconditionally allowing it to be what it is. The dark and ominous force of negativity dissolves all by itself when we bring light to those regions within us that were previously in deepest shadow…
When we are anxious our thinking is very much like an out-of-control fire. What would help us therefore is to starve this ‘thinking fire’ of fuel, so that it will gradually become less distressing and debilitating in its impact on us.
Every time we think about something we are throwing fuel on the fire, and when we are anxious we are constantly thinking about things. We think about things because we are compelled to do so by some sense of urgency – because we feel we need to do so if we are to stand any chance at all of staying in control of the situation. This sense of urgency, this compulsion, is how the anxious state of mind gets us to keep on feeding it…
When we try to figure out what to do about the anxiety we are suffering from this is also a way of feeding it. The more we think about the best way to get rid of the anxiety the more we are feeding the anxiety!
If you give me a method to use in order to reduce my anxiety then in order to use the method I am of course going to have to think about using it, which is going to feed the fire of my thinking!
If there is a method to follow then this raises the possibility of me getting it wrong and this of course automatically puts me under pressure. All methods involve ‘right versus wrong’, all methods involve pressure.
– every time I think about what I might do to get rid of my anxiety this makes it worse. Every time I think about what I might do to lessen my anxiety this actually increases it…
To deliberately ignore something is to feed it: if I deliberately ignore my anxious thinking then I am feeding this thinking, I am strengthening it, I am putting energy into it. Deliberately ignoring something is the same as fighting with it, after all!
Real life is not a change of activity, but a change of the quality of the activity. Destiny – is destiny. Each one of us has to find himself in the whole order of things. It is not too late yet to start doing it now, although you have spent the greater part of your life in sleep.
Our main enemy, which is hindering us from applying the necessary efforts – is hopelessness. I know, you will have many excuses not to prepare yourself for the last hour of your life. The habit is a big force, but starting once, you can learn to do each time more and more.
Do not fiddle all day, force yourself at least one hour a day to make an effort, otherwise you will lose everything.
It doesn’t matter what way I have of trying not to relate to my pain, I just notice myself doing it.
Self-distraction is a way of ‘not being there’. Each one of us has a whole range of tricks or methods or techniques of not being there, of not relating to what is going on.
The basic practice that we are talking about involves ‘spotting the trick’ – it involves me catching myself out in my habitual (which is to say, automatic) attempt to distract myself from whatever mental pain it is that I am suffering from.
This has nothing to do with changing the automatic response, or blaming yourself for having it – which is of course what tends to happen – but simply seeing it going on.
Seeing myself automatically distracting myself from whatever it is that I want to be distracted from is of course a very powerful thing in itself because once I see this process going on I can no longer take the distraction seriously.
I can’t force myself to relate to my pain because forcing is false, because forcing is not authentic. Forcing is the opposite of acceptance and acceptance is the only basis for relationship. What I do therefore is to ‘relate to my non-relating’
I relate to my attempt not to relate to my pain.
Self-recrimination means that I am ‘distracting myself by blaming myself’ and this is just another form of legitimized pain-avoidance for me to get sucked up into. I can see myself doing it, but I don’t have to take it seriously.
but accepting yourself exactly as you are and this comes down to recognizing and totally accepting the fact that we don’t like pain and that we don’t want to accept it.
And if ‘what is going on’ is that we are ‘trying to avoid seeing what is going on’ then we just see this is what is happening. We gently notice that this is so. And although it doesn’t seem that this ‘gentle noticing’ can help us with our unforgiving attitude to ourselves it does, because through gently observing ourselves judging ourselves, we are free from that judging…
For instance , if I react with fear to something in my hologram , my Infinite I might decide to send me another very similar hologram to see how I would react the next time . Maybe it was fascinated by my fear , when it knows there was nothing to be afraid of in the experience it had created for me and wonders why I was so terrified . Or maybe it wants to give me the gift of discovering for myself there is nothing to be afraid of . Or maybe it just wanted to feel my fear again vicariously ( which we’ll discuss in the next chapter ) .
On Fear and Infinite I
Not only is “ making things go right ” a judgment that keeps Human Adults stuck in the movie theater , but as you now know , a Player has no ability to make anything happen at all . A Player’s only job is to react and respond to what is happening in the holographic universe created for them by their Infinite I .
you can stop working so hard trying to control your life , trying to “ make things go right , ” trying to create and manage the holographic images that make up your reality and your life . It’s not possible , it’s a waste of time , and it will wear you out and leave you thinking you’re a failure .
Every reaction and response you have had to every moment of your life – the holographic movies created for you by your Infinite I – has been “ right ” and perfect . You have never done anything “ wrong ” or made any mistake – ever . Your Infinite I wants each and every feeling you send to it , no matter what that feeling is .
You will receive no clear messages from your intuition if unprocessed experiences are still clouding your perceptions . Each moment reveals a healing truth that you will not be able to see when looking through the filters of emotional pain from the past .
It is easy to project past emotional imprints onto the present moment and see it as " truth " in the outside world . Memory , unreliable and mutable , is an illusion that clouds your true perception of life .
Yet , memory , which no longer exists is an illusion . If the majority of your time thinking is spent remembering the past , you are seeing memories of an illusion .
Thinking about the past prevents you from really seeing life freshly as it is . When you are feeling emotional , it is helpful to remind yourself , as a self - regulating measure , " The past is not here . This is the present . "
This lesson drives home the point that your mind is not really thinking at all . It is full of unhealed emotional imprints that affect your true experience of life .
Planting the seeds of truth takes time . Be honest with yourself if a lesson does not " land " with you right away . This lesson explains , " But while you may be able to accept it intellectually , it is unlikely that it will mean anything to you as yet . "
Change is often slow . When big changes do happen , it is usually because you have been preparing for change for a long time . In this sense , spiritual growth is really quite ordinary , but a daily practice requires dedication . A slow evolving training program is what most of us need to gently transform our lives .
The Course does point out that instant enlightenment is right in front of you if you would allow it . But most of us need to create a " container " for truth through gradual daily effort . The Course says , " By far the majority are given a slowly - evolving training program , in which as many previous mistakes as possible are corrected . "
Your personal perception is emotionally imprinted from your human conception onward . Human vision is clouded by the mistaken beliefs formed in childhood .
To evolve out of your inherited belief systems , your uncomfortable emotions must gradually be seen , felt , understood and released . When you are no longer so emotionally accumulated , your perceptual filters from the past will fall away .
By giving the same amount of time and attention to the negative and positive thoughts generated from your personal thought system , you teach yourself that all the things you see from your personal perception are all equally meaningless .
When you feel emotionally upset about what is happening , you will likely be paying more attention to what reinforces your past concepts of hurt instead of seeing the wider possibilities for healing that are available in each moment .
Be curious . Be willing to be surprised . Allow a larger intelligence to write the deeper meaning of your life today .
In your ego - mind , you will make meaning based on your unhealed emotional pain . You can choose instead to replace your ego fears with humility and admit , " I do not know the deeper meaning of my life . "
If you do not do your emotional healing work , it will seem like you live in a dangerous world . When you realize that all action taken from guilt and fear contribute to the collective disturbances in the world , you will probably want to bring more love into all of your interactions .
As you let go of your fearful thoughts and forgive your guilt about past mistakes , you will sense the particularity of love that wants to live through you to further the light in this world . As you let go of your judgmental thinking , the Course will lead you on the " journey from fear to love . "
If it’s a process for them in which they have to manifest into thought , and then into action , I can act before they arrive at their action .
I just was dealing with the situation in a more real sense . I was dealing with what was true , and that ability happened because it is aligned to what is true . I didn’t notice that that ability was something I could develop , or was something that somebody didn’t have but could develop .
Cheng Hsin offers that solid ground . It has a lot to do with rearranging the patterns and design of our body , thinking , feeling and perceptions . Cheng Hsin is a total endeavor , requiring a transformation of the entire Being , not just one aspect .
I would like to see martial arts turned into a place for the development of human beings , and of honesty . A place where we can see what it is that we do in life that really makes us suffer and hurt , or be ineffective and incomplete . Martial arts is an excellent place to see that , if it is done right . Otherwise — and 99 % of the time it is otherwise — it is done like everything else , just to add to our survival and protection , our “ rightness , ” and this ends up increasing resistance and separation — it’s the same approach we have to everything else . I’d like to see it become as functional as it can be . A very valuable tool , the way of a Warrior , not the way of pretense and struggle . Really use it as a tool for growth , not self - deceit .
The purpose of teaching Cheng Hsin is to communicate an experience of “ being ” at its source . This experience provides the possibility of consciously creating a way of being — one that is committed to the truth , is creative , and oriented to the open possibility that reflects the absolute nature of Being .
I find it best sometimes to leave a communication slightly obscure without attempting to spell it out in practical terms , so that the reader or hearer is forced to seek out for himself the experience inherent in it . Of course , this approach is not intended to hide the experience , or make it difficult to reach ; rather , it is meant to maximize an experiential encounter .
In this case , we look at the body - being , which is simply what appears “ to ” us and “ as ” us when being appears as a thing .
Right now , do not deny any aspect of yourself , good or bad . Look at the way you are now , for it is the only way to begin . Ten years from now it will still be the only way to begin .
At this moment , just as you sit or stand , get a sense of yourself . Don’t withhold anything from yourself about yourself . Now , feel as if you are not withholding anything about yourself from anyone else . This is the creative source you must work with , the acknowledgment and awareness of which will accelerate your progress greatly . If you didn’t get a real sense of this , put this book down , and contemplate until you do . I’ll wait .
Being calm appears when our internal activity is aligned with the principle for which this is so . This principle seems tied to the presence of being , in which the mere presence of being is allowed to be , regardless of how it appears . In this , being is experienced without preference or aversion , no matter the form .
When the activity that occurs as mind is distorted into a form in which that activity appears to be disturbed or unsettled , it is often rejected and held as something wrong , something to be avoided . This relationship to what is apparently already occurring immediately severs us from the activity itself , putting us in the position of “ fixer ” rather than one of simply being . This occurs the moment we first ascertain that we are not calm . From this position we are not in the best place to correct this malady , should we hold that it needs fixing , and so a struggle ensues to find and move to the place in which the disturbance can be corrected . This way of holding calm makes calm almost inaccessible .
Being calm is essential to all that we do . Having a calm mind doesn’t depend on appearance . It doesn’t depend on situations . It is more powerful to see calmness not as something that we have to force into being , but as something already existing , or simply as a quality of being in which we can abide , something to be fallen into or uncovered . It can be held as a base or context to those qualities that we call not - calm , or different from calm . Thus we can see attaining calmness not as something that we do , like jumping from one item to another , but as a shift into the sea in which all things float .
It is our tendency toward constant reactivity that reveals to us the power of stillness .
on . By holding calm in the way suggested here , we can simply not “ do ” those things . It may be useful to regard this as a shift to neither rejecting nor being bound to any thought , emotion or reaction . Then , instead of trying to make those things disappear , we can simply let them be , not feed them energy and attention , and let them float in the base that we now call being calm . It is from this principle that we can be responsive and clear .
Recognize that the stillness of Being is not contrary to the activity of life .
Being , or Consciousness , controls the body . It also controls thoughts , emotions , and the energy of the body . However , most of us are controlled by and identified with mind , and so mind influences and appears to control everything we do .
The moon reflects in still water clearly . In moving water , although the appearance is different , the moon is the same . Knowing this , one stills the mind even in motion . In stillness there is always potential for action . Know the nature of the water and the moon , no matter the condition .
To “ relax under fire ” means to stay calm and relaxed even in stressful situations . This reveals the true strength of your position , and thus the appropriate change .
It has been demonstrated that deep muscular relaxation cannot coexist with anxiety . Where there is one , there cannot be the other . A calm mind seems to be the outcome of relaxing in this manner , as well as a supple and free body
Looseness allows freedom of movement and change . It also permits a spontaneous response to force and a swiftness in activity that cannot be accomplished in any other way .
Through relaxing , we not only have a supple body , but we’ve calmed our mind in the process . Freeing all of our energy , or body - feeling , is the only real way to unify the whole body . Since gravity is a constant force , the relaxed tissues and freed feeling - attention will naturally move downward , so the process of sinking or grounding begins here as well .
When our feeling - attention is put in the center region , the intellect does not dominate our actions and perceptions .
Centering calms the mind , making it clear and powerful , unquestioning and unknowing , thus allowing access to a domain of spontaneously appropriate actions .
In physical relationship , it moves the body as a whole and allows it to be directed effectively , yet its value does not stop there ; centering is also important for the effect it has on our energy and mind .
The center is the abode of the “ intelligence ” that directly engages activity and responds to it spontaneously . This intelligence does not channel through a process of intellectual considerations , solving , knowing , remembering , or thinking . It is direct and answers directly . Herein lies its power .
To sink implies to lower into , to move downward , and this is also inherent in this principle .
Since weight tends to move downward , sinking begins by relaxing the muscles , letting them drop to a lower position . This process allows access to intrinsic strength by unlocking joints and disengaging the bones , increasing energy circulation . Relaxation allows our tissues , breath , blood , and consciousness to sink . When this occurs you will also feel a sinking down toward the center region .
Whether moving or standing still , you must carry the upper body literally resting on the pelvis and legs . You should feel this to be so . The chest , shoulders , belly , arms , et cetera just relax , and their entire weight is carried by the legs . The legs must also relax and support this body as a rubber ball would support it , catching it into the earth , not pushing it away . It is often best to stand with more weight on one leg at any given
To locate the life force , dwell on your “ sense of being . ” Once you have a strong sense of your own being , without imagery or thought , you are right on top of it . The feeling - sense that encompasses every aspect of your being is in the same place as the life force . When you move your sense of being downward , feeling and concentrating on the lower parts — such as the pelvis , legs , feet , and ground — your energy will follow .
To move your life force , your mind cannot be simply abstract or intellectual ; it must be in your body , “ locked - together ” so that a thought is a bodily function . Then your energy will move with your mind . If you want to move all life force , then move your entire sense of being , every part of yourself , all at once . To be powerfully grounded , move all of your mind so that no thought , feeling , or attention is separate from the actual sensation that you are sinking into the earth , center , and legs . This is sinking , or moving your energy . If you collect it en masse , by feeling your totality , then it will be powerful .
In one sense , we sink our weight ; in another , we sink our energy — lowering our feeling - attention and surrendering our upper positioning — but both processes work simultaneously . We must concentrate on our feet and the feeling in the feet as they constantly relate and readjust relationship to the earth . It is the tendency to fall or be pulled to the earth
the source of movement . This relaxing or sinking into the earth also gives force to our movements . It is the transference of weight from one foot to the other that allows us most of our actions and power . This transference is a relaxing or releasing of one leg to favor the other .
When we begin to look into the great forces that are involved — the principles that appear in attraction , relativity , union , or unifying force , as well as expansion and radiance — we start to see that gravity is not just a mere “ fact of the planet . ” It is a profound force and possibility . It is representative of a prime principle that founds the event in which we find ourselves . Consider this deeply .
Use your whole body in unison and as one piece , centered in the pelvis , with the most important priority given to the center and legs . All of the body , although relaxed , should act as one . The only way to do this successfully , and also keep the body relaxed , is to unify the feeling - awareness and consciousness and let the body follow this unity .
The body parts must not only move together in the same direction , but must also move for the same purpose .
For a movement to be directed toward one purpose , the whole body must relax and be directed by the center and feet . If muscles are exerted to push out “ these ” parts and contract “ those ” then , in order to maintain balance , others must be used to check the first and hold the second . This creates tension , which may increase the “ sensation ” of strength but is not the same as the accomplishment of power .
As a result , we have many areas that are “ dead , ” held in place through tension , and others that are terribly restricted because muscles are serving antagonistic roles toward one another . We even find in this case , which is by far the most common one , that some parts are moving in the wrong direction to accomplish the purpose at hand . This state is known as “ fighting yourself . ”
As I said , the only way to make the entire relaxed body function in such a way is to give up the body and follow the " feeling - awareness . "
If we form a union with our whole mind - activity and our entire sense of being , then our energy will unify .
Keeping the body relaxed , we may direct this feeling - sense for any purpose , and the body must follow .
we must not think of it as something too difficult or too easy to accomplish ; we must do what we can now , and when that’s accomplished , do more .
The problem with “ formed ” teaching lies in the difficulty of maintaining the real communication , which lies within the domain of not - knowing , while the appearance of form and knowing keeps people busy ; and to do this without losing the only real development while “ forming ” is going on .
Direct the feeling - attention with a calm presence of being . Relax the body so that it is supple and free , and allows the energy and feeling to sink and circulate . Let the body act as one whole unit , moving from the center . Harmonize all of the multi - faceted components of the body - being to create a complete “ integrity of being . ”
My actions are not my own , but follow the way of the environment . I do not try , but step here or there and let the outcome occur . To do this is a beautiful feeling .
Being with someone completely means to be open to them , and to our “ mind ” ( which for us is a survival function ) , this means revealing our whole self inclusive of that which we identify as good and bad . This is seen as a bad strategy to the protective activity called mind . It is not a bad strategy for being alive .
We begin to notice that the experience of the situation of the moment does not lie inside or outside ; it lies within the total event itself , and is beyond the activity of mind , or manipulation of our actions . Nevertheless , we persist in our efforts to control and manipulate conditions from an exclusive sense of self , and then wonder why we are not satisfied .
So , when I say relax the commitment to self , I simply mean to relax the identification or attachment to maintaining your particular structure , appearance , and desire to “ win . ” Relax the fear of losing and the sense of separateness . What occurs at this point is a feeling of openness , presence , and being with whatever happens , unconcerned with any result , simply aware and open to this moment in time .
To be sure , this does not mean to be uninvolved , withdrawn or indolent . If the situation demands a high level of energy and action , then that will naturally occur . We simply have no binding attachment to the outcome .
By letting go of our exclusive commitment to self , we reach a position of openness , of pure Being , where we are able to receive , “ read ” and respond to life demands as they arise .
When you are involved in anything , notice how quite frequently not all of you is involved . When we are overly involved and focused on a result in a future moment , then we are not totally in this one . If we hold something back or in reserve , have thoughts that are not about what is happening now , or at least not supportive of the present experience and activity , then we will be divided and not total .
You probably have some idea that studies such as T’ai Chi and Aikido deal with changing the body , freeing the mind , and developing the energy or life force . Although development of the energy inherent to the body - being and mind is of primary importance , it is not the purpose . It is rather a preparation within " Cheng Hsin " to realize " Cheng Hsin . " This process , inclusive of bodily transformation , is itself the creation of a vehicle and tool for the function of an art . Even this function is not the end but the ground in which understanding may take place .
The fundamental training of the body - being lies in the use of feeling or " energy . " Whether flowing in specific channels , or adopting a state ( or functional conceptual condition ) , the feeling - energy is primary . Training the body mechanics to adapt to sound physical principles is the first step , but this can only be done if body - feel and its direction enters into study , and this brings energy into play .
Of course , feeling the mechanics and persisting in their training is a must . This is your art . Make it yours by becoming at home with its movements , so that they
come about naturally and spontaneously through your appropriate expression in changing conditions .
At first you must establish your own center as master over the extremities , by changing the body’s habit of moving as separate parts to moving as one whole directed from the center .
By also “ plugging ” into the earth's massive depth through the bottom of the feet , we draw our power and motivation to the center .
Feeling and playing in the entire space that surrounds the body is very important . Learn to fill out and circulate the feeling throughout the body , and to extend it out past the hands or radiate from the whole body all at once . Keep a balance of awareness on all sides . Whenever we focus a lot of energy outward ( energy extension ) , that flow should be balanced by centering and grounding our feeling - attention .
The essence of routine training lies in obtaining body - being mastery and expressing the life force through it . Body - feel is a must , as is the training and stretching of the tissues , so that you can create a full and dynamic expression of energy in an art form . It is getting to know yourself through your relationship with body movement , and through the process of developing a free expression .
Make no mistake ; it is a study of your very existence as a bodily being . It is an opportunity to bring into being an integrity of body , movement , and function .
So , it becomes apparent that the essential activity and principle that we are addressing is that of following — - to “ give up yourself and follow the opponent . ” Remember , in order to find the appropriate action or response at a touch , the body should be like water , the mind empty and open , so that : The opponent molds his own defeat by his very actions as you are free to be molded .
Health , physical exercise , staying fit , learning how to fight , learning self - defense are all side effects to the study here , not the purpose .
Sure you could . But you are not fighting them . The purpose of Cheng Hsin fighting is to have a tool to look at what we are already doing ; and then to understand and transcend it . To be able to blend with somebody physically , you have to blend with them mentally , your energy has to , your consciousness has to . You have to be able to be with them ; and in order to be with them you have to be able to be with more than yourself . This offers an opportunity to do that . Perhaps the idea about being in life is to do the same thing , is to be with it rather than against it .
In any case , it looks to me like that would certainly make one happier . I'm happier when I'm being with life than when I'm fighting the world . I grew up fighting the world . That was my attitude , and so Cheng Hsin has turned me around . Learning to do this with just one other , another human , is difficult . Things that get in the way come up . And the things that get in the way here are the things that get in the way out there too . . . avoidance , resistance , fear and anger , and all that stuff . We look at it all , and see what it takes to do it and not to do it .
You can choose to hurt somebody and it’s like hitting a bag , for example . You are not really fighting the bag , you are hitting it . Do you know what I’m saying ? On another level you could say that they will get hurt because they want that . They are engaged in that and if that is what their demand is , that is what they will produce . That is what will happen . They want an impact . They want some sudden , definitive contact , and you supply that . Sometimes people , I mean really , sometimes people who like to fight a lot want to get hit , for whatever is going on with them . They want to punish themselves , they just want to feel it , whatever . They want to get hit .
If what you are up to is beating up the other person , then you could do one action and it would have an adverse effect . But if what you are up to is playing or expanding your consciousness of what is , then you can do the very same action and it would support the other person . In other words , someone could put a foot into my body just with the intention of hurting me , and that would create an effect in the world . And a person could put their foot into my body with no particular intention at all . They could just be playing with me or being in relationship with me , fighting or something . Then , as you say , that would occur as a result of a hole in my consciousness or awareness , and it would be the very same hit , in the very same place , the very same action , but a completely different trip . Is that your point of view ? PR : Yes . That’s quite true .
They’re very similar . A lot of confusion and avoidance arises in sexuality as it does in fighting . People have confusion about expressing it at all . Trying to keep it in , being sensual and getting nervous about that . Confusion of what feelings are about . Feeling somebody . Sometimes people don’t want to feel somebody else because of the confusion of sexuality . All this stuff comes up , but it is simply feeling someone’s presence , you see ? Not knowing what is going on , really , just that what you are doing is feeling their presence , and it doesn't mean anything sexually . I find for myself , personally , however , that they are very similar . They are both very satisfying . Once I had the thought , “ If I’m not going to make love I’d really like to be fighting . ” ( laughter ) I realized the connection I have with those two . That they are both very much the same for me in a sense , because in both I get contact . In both I have a relationship .
One thing I say to people about relaxing , for example : “ If it feels the same as before , it probably is . ” If I say : “ Completely relax your tissues and move around in a very deep state of relaxation , ” and you say : “ But it feels exactly the same ; I don’t notice anything different . ” Then I would say : “ If it feels the same , it probably is . ” When you relax completely it feels different from when you don’t relax , and you get an opportunity to notice that . When you change your state by surrendering to the activity that’s going on , then you feel differently , you act differently , you even perceive differently . But sometimes it is very hard to perceive what that shift is . You see , it is not easy to identify . Like when you are playing with somebody , and you “ try ” to shift your state . That doesn’t work . You try to give up something or experience something and it doesn’t work , then it is real frustrating . Q : In other words , you can’t do it without doing it . PR : Right . And , by and by , through practice , day after day , year after year , you begin to cultivate an appreciation for what that shift actually is . So that you can move into it much more quickly . You can do it .
Q : Is Cheng Hsin work dependent on the student having realized their true nature ? PR : No . You can begin work on the event of your life without knowing what Being is . You can transform your life without knowing that it is Being doing the transforming . It will probably take longer because a lot of energy will be wasted working on yourself not having a direct and authentic experience of what founds the work and you , and because you will have a more limited access to the unthinkable .
One of the things about having an experience of Being is that it allows you to recognize your mind as a point of view and not as the truth . And that is invaluable and transformative . As long as you hold what you think as right , and not merely as a point of view , then you are stuck with it and it appears as real or the reflection of and assessment of reality . And it is not . You have to recognize first that you are not what you think , then freedom is possible .
. If a person does not practice , though his heart may be strong , he will fail to fulfill his function . Form is practiced by a means of the life Force . The Life Force is that which defines the form by means of the Heart . One must , therefore , keep the Life Force lively and uninhibited , strong and balanced
When it is understood in one’s Heart and no longer generates doubts then action and principle converge , the Life Force is concentrated , the spirit calmed , and responses follow unhampered .
If the Heart is peaceful and undisturbed , then the Life Force will also be harmonious and follow the Heart in this and very naturally do justice to the activity . Yet if there are irritations in the Heart , then the Life Force will be inhibited , and the hands and feet will not perform their function properly . Too much attention to technique inhibits the Life Force and causes it to lose its harmony and balance .
As soon as the slightest refuge is taken in thoughts , the Life Force assumes form , and the opponent defeats that which has thus gained form .
If the archer’s spirit blends into a union with bow and arrow , then the bow is also filled with this spirit and is an equally marvelous creature . If the bow is forcibly bent then the nature of the bow is violated , bow and archer oppose and contradict one another and there is no mutual permeation of their spirits . Instead the strength of the bow is inhibited , and is robbed of its power , and when that happens the arrow will not fulfill its function .
Action springs from the Principle ; formlessness reigns over that which is formed . Thus , technique is practiced from the Life Force and the Life Force is exercised from the Heart — that is the order in which things occur .
Swordsmanship is basically the exercising of the Life Force , and therefore , at the beginning of study the Life Force is exercised by means of form . It makes no sense to exercise the Life Force separately from form , for then there is nothing upon which to test it .
being “ motionless in motion . ”
The ability to respond is proven in combat . If one’s self is free from thoughts , then the form offers no point of attack . If it does offer a point of attack , then it is the result of thoughts which manifest in form . If one’s self is free from thoughts , this is called “ having neither a self nor an opponent . ” If there is a self , then there is also an opponent .
The desire to reflect another from one’s self is a thought . And because this thought hinders the self , the Life Force is also inhibited and its responses are not free .
and the responses of the Heart would be unhindered and free . Then , even if such powerful opponents such as wealth , nobility , poverty , low birth , misfortune and need , trouble and pain , were to close in on him from every direction , then his thoughts would not be moved even in the slightest , and these opponents would be repulsed as flies by a fan . When we reach that point , even without wings we will possess the freedom of flight .
It is difficult , however , to rid oneself of any particular thought to which one has clung from the very beginning . If he at least frees his Heart from the prison fashioned by selfishness , then nothing in the entire world will be able to set his self in motion , he will respond unhindered and freely .
The intellect is basically a function of consciousness and cannot be labeled as bad . It is only bad if it supports passions , withdraws from the original context , and becomes a person’s main concern . If the intellect makes itself the main concern , if it supports feelings and desires and moves in a confused way , then even though a person knows that this is not right , he will find it difficult to bring his mind under control .
The Life Force determines the functions of the entire body by way of the Heart . Its essence consists of calmness of spirit , harmony of the Life Force , spontaneity of responses , and the natural pursuit of action . That should be examined and seen in one’s own body . If a person simply reads it or hears it from another but does not prove it in his own body , then the Principle remains mere theory and does not become functional . If a person hears of the Principle , then examines all that he has heard in his own body and recognizes it in his Being , only then does he attain the perfect understanding of that which is right and wrong about things , that which is easy and that which is difficult . That is called practice .
Collect the confused and agitated Life Force and release this unbalanced Life Force and make it peaceful . Quiet the mind , relax the body , and circulate the Life Force freely and throughout . If one practices this daily , one will spontaneously experience a feeling of well - being . Out of this blissfulness , one will practice the art more and more intensively . If the Life Force is collected , it cannot fail to be enlivened .
Peter Ralston On Pain
Pain 23:67 Pain itself is misunderstood. We most often think of pain as a particular sensation in the body, and we assume that it is simply a physiological phenomenon. But we also acknowledge all sorts of mental anguish and emotional pain, both of which are obviously conceptual activities. How is it possible that we can feel so much pain—such as the loss of a loved one—arising simply from an activity of the mind? If we can see that pain is always generated as an activity of the mind, then this is not such a great leap. 23:68 As I asserted earlier, pain is a concept. Such a statement clearly takes our concept of concept into a domain beyond our common understanding. Saying that all concept is produced by the mind, and that pain is a concept, suggests that pain is not what we’ve assumed it to be. 
Once a wisdom seed is planted , it will bear fruit sooner or later if you provide the key nutrients of earnest interest and loving attention .
you . In order to deepen your meditative experience of this book , you might consider approaching it in the Christian contemplative tradition of lectio divina , which means “ divine reading . ” Lectio divina is a style of encountering a text that promotes union with whatever term you might use to denote the highest mystery : “ awareness , ” “ consciousness , ” “ a higher power , ” “ God , ” “ presence , ” “ nature , ” or “ life . ”
time . The point is to read and contemplate the text in a relaxed mood of open receptivity with love of truth as your motivation .
I invite you to meditate on what you have read , especially when something resonates with you . If the cells in your body vibrate with a pleasant sensation , an “ aha ” recognition , or even a simple “ huh , ” that’s an indication that what you read either aligns with truth or at least warrants further contemplation . It’s helpful to stop reading at these times , to put the book down , to allow your cells to absorb the vibrational resonance fully , and to rewire accordingly . Hang out there for at least a few minutes .
The realization of your wholeness should result in a deep cellular relaxation that allows your system to become flowingly integrated at a systemic level , thereby triggering and fostering the innate healing capacity of the body . Don’t rush this contemplative , nurturing process ; while certain insights might be sudden , truth - absorption , healing , and neural rewiring take time .
true . In a sense , reality is simply what remains when thought falls silent . All the words in this book are straining to point to that simple silence . Since no statement about reality can have absolute truth , you must ultimately come to “ unlearn ” everything you think you know .
If you look closely enough , you will discover that your heart’s deepest wish is not to attain the object of desire time after time , which is a compulsive and highly uncomfortable state of agitation ; your heart’s deepest wish is to be free from the agitation of desire : simply to be at peace .
If you don’t identify with the self - contractions and then soften them back into formlessness as soon as they arise , you begin to awaken to the natural state that never came or went by virtue of its timeless presence . The dismantling of the wanting - machine takes place every time you see it in operation without identifying with it .
Being in nature can facilitate and even hasten this healing process . When you walk in a forest , for example , you immediately sense your kinship with nature . You feel your body - mind unwind and relax at a deep cellular level . Your ego and related desires melt away , and you are at peace . This process is exponentially more powerful when you allow yourself to saunter , a marvelous word that Henry David Thoreau uses to describe a sacred form of walking that does not have a destination in mind .
Thoreau considers sauntering a lost art in the modern world and equates it with radical freedom insofar as it is predicated on leaving behind all your worldly concerns . As you saunter through nature , you resonate like a tuning fork with the peace and goodness of streams , bubbling brooks , wild animals , birds , moss , ferns , falling leaves , and trees , all of which are in the timeless natural state of what we would call “ meditation . ” If you have ever watched a big animal at rest , you might have noticed how it’s profoundly relaxed at a cellular level and breathes deeply .
Big trees , such as redwoods and sequoias , similarly transmit a deep - rooted presence with which the human body resonates on an ancient , primal , non - cognitive level . This can become your natural default state , too , when you allow yourself to fall back into the wide - open arms of boundless awareness instead of being in a constant unnatural state of fight , flight , or freeze . In fact , your body is already in the same natural state just like the rest of nature . Your body is already enlightened ! It’s just your mind that hasn’t gotten the memo .
When you begin to awaken , desire falls away , but you will probably still have preferences . Preferences indicate that you would rather one thing happen than another but that your peace will not be affected either way . Preferences are clean and natural . Therefore , they are healthier because you own your power by not allowing your state of being to fall prey to the mercy of circumstantial outcomes that are completely outside your control . Although desires may still arise after awakening , they won’t cause suffering because they will have lost their “ stickiness ” by ceasing to revolve around or refer to a false self .
To begin with , you can try simply to be content with what you already have and refuse to follow a desire for what you do not have . If that’s not possible , sit with the seeking energy and soften into it until you are able to unhook your attention from it . Then you can begin to see that nothing created will completely satisfy your hunger because all created things are impermanent and empty of a reality apart from your true nature . Learning to rest as the formless natural state does require a process of maturation since most people’s body - minds are addicted to desiring and seeking . Over time , though , you can recondition your system to be more in alignment with the peace of your true nature .
attention . I invite you to tune in only to those books , movies , TV shows , songs , and Internet sites that truly inspire you to fulfill your greatest potential for evolution and self - knowledge . When you shift to those uplifting frequencies and let go of those that contract your sense of wellbeing , your life ( and the lives around you ) will automatically begin to heal .
For me , the beauty of the painting lies in the juxtaposition of the ordinariness of a seemingly material “ thing ” that could not be more inconsequential from a conventional perspective with the stunningly illuminated background against which the shoes stand out and in which the shoes themselves participate .
Most of us go through life looking at everything but not seeing anything . Looking is passive and inanimate ; seeing is aliveness itself . Like all great artists , van Gogh transmutes looking into seeing , waking awareness up to the vibrancy of conscious being .
There’s a wonderful quotation by the great French novelist Marcel Proust : “ My destination is no longer a place but , rather , a new way of seeing . ” As you go through your day , put this “ new way of seeing ” ( and being ) into practice . Whenever it occurs to you , try seeing and feeling as this vivid , alive , spiritual , mysterious subjective awareness .
Because interpersonal exchanges often trigger deep precognitive fears that can result in minor to acute forms of self - contraction , you will initially need to remain steady ( i.e . , awake ) by consciously softening whatever tensions may arise , especially those in the solar plexus and head .
contractions . Practicing this shift even for a few moments at a time has a powerful transformative and healing effect on the body - mind and on the entire field of experiencing . Over time , the need for “ practice ” drops away once this sacred way of perceiving becomes established as the natural state .
Instead of using concentration , which we often use as a kind of forceful and violent gesture , I will invite you gently and intuitively to notice awareness with your capacity of formless attention , which is an effortless , global , undivided alertness — an open , soft , all - encompassing wakefulness . It’s a pure intelligence that’s always here when experience is present .
I would like to stress that “ noticing ” as I’m using it here is impersonal and impartial — not to be confused with “ uncaring ” or “ indifferent , ” words that have cold , negative connotations that may signal aloofness or even denial . I’m not speaking of aloofness or denial here . On the contrary , this noticing is a form of insight , the only power that has the potential to dispel ignorance and to replace the pinch of suffering with the joy of freedom .
possible . Don’t try to eradicate anything with strenuous effort . If you are using effort , you will likely miss the point . Using the full range of your mental , emotional , and intuitive faculties , you’re simply trying to understand your true nature as an act of self - love . You “ pay ” attention , then , as an act of loving devotion to your deepest self . When you engage in this inquiry as gently and compassionately as possible , with your best interests at heart and with great affection toward yourself , you begin to transmute the dense psychosomatic body into a more fluid field of energy and light .
You don’t have to sell all your stuff and move to the Himalayas to become “ poor in spirit ” or even to discover “ the most intimate poverty . ” All you have to do is put down all your worldly concerns for the time it takes to perform these meditations . Let the world run itself for a while . Again , you are not getting rid of your relationships , responsibilities , and possessions ; you are just softening your “ internal ” attachment to them and setting them down for a few minutes at a time . It helps to perform these meditations , therefore , when you are not likely to have any interruptions or demands on your time and attention from “ external ” conditions .
Sit or lie down comfortably . Rest the body - mind without becoming drowsy or falling asleep . Remain in a state of relaxed alertness . Now gently place attention on the flow of thinking , noticing that when a thought ends , you are still present and aware . Now gently ignore the thoughts themselves and notice , instead , the gap between each thought . Do this for two to three minutes . Now gently feel into the gap with your attention and intuition so that you have a kinesthetic or felt sense of resting as and being the gap . Do this for two to three minutes .
The main point of this meditation is to make it clear that passive “ witnessing , ” which is a common technique in Eastern meditative traditions , is not enough to bring about a substantive shift in understanding . You have to become the gap between thoughts and actively stay there for at least one or two moments at a time . This gap is the literal source of life and consciousness ; it’s where “ the juice ” can be found since its potential is infinite . Because passive witnessing never enters or activates the gap , witnessing can seem dry or boring and may even lead to an existential apathy , malaise , or gray dullness , basically a desert of monochromatic detachment . It lacks heart and vitality . Many people with whom I work report feeling this way because of the practice of witnessing . Repeatedly placing attention on and then actively being the gap — even for brief moments — heals the wound of separation over time and allows your true self to function integrally again--Michael Rodriguez BA .
Don’t allow your self to land anywhere . To leave reality unformulated is the most radically honest — and the single most difficult — thing for a human being to do precisely because it’s a non - doing ; it entails refraining from formulating a definition of your self .
Most people are so addicted to “ doing ” that they cannot fathom “ non - doing . ” Thoughts will pop up to try to fill in the gap . They are remarkably seductive . Just notice and gently disregard this tendency to name or understand what you are .
So when you realize that you are the gap between thoughts and the thought arises , Oh , that’s what I am ! ( or something like that ) , gently notice and allow that thought to vanish in you just like any other thought or feeling . In the beginning , there must be a supreme vigilance with such thoughts because they will unconsciously reinforce the separate sense of self in the form of a “ spiritual ego . ”
It’s not wise to try to banish any mentally or emotionally painful states that may arise but to welcome them home by listening to them with your full , undivided attention . When having a conversation with your best friend , or when listening to a beautiful piece of music , you do not listen with an ulterior motive but simply for its own sake , because it is good in itself . It’s the same in regard to your relationship with shadow material .
Once you have used thoughts for practical functioning , you can then shift from practical thinking to “ thoughting , ” which is not problematic . Actually , thoughts by themselves are timeless and weightless — even the so - called “ bad ” or “ disturbing ” ones . If you examine them closely , there’s nothing really there other than a momentary energetic burst . When they are no longer fed with attention and interest , thoughts appear and disappear quite spontaneously and effortlessly . They glide along like birds in the sky . When they lose their “ grabby ” and “ sticky ” quality and are no longer consulted for your identity , they are maximally useful for practical purposes .
Conscious suffering is when you ( consciousness ) wisely choose the discomfort of not avoiding or indulging the shadow rather than unwisely avoiding or indulging it .
If you are quietly attentive and observant during these times , you can begin to see that energy — the energy we label “ fear , ” for example — is experienced in the form of raw energetic sensations that you may interpret mentally as “ fear , ” which freezes a natural flow of energy at the level of conceptual thought . Interpretations are always removed from the facts themselves by virtue of their
If you can suspend your interpretation about the situation and simply allow yourself to feel the raw sensations fully in the body without avoiding , indulging , or interpreting them , the energy will run its course , exhaust itself , and naturally self - liberate . Like flowing water , energy always naturally seeks the path of least resistance and flows on . That is the meaning of the Tao ( the Way of life ) , which could simply be described as the universal flow state without blocks or snags .
The first thing to consider is that there’s really only one “ core wound ” in the human experience : the belief in and felt sensation of separation . What we normally think of as core wounds are more like “ secondary core wounds ” because they keep repeating themselves cyclically in relation to the primary core wound of separation — what I called “ the core psychosomatic trauma ”
Secondary core wounds can be thought of as really old “ tape loops ” that have not been fully experienced and allowed in the light of awareness . Once it is clear that you are boundless , loving awareness itself and not a separate person , you can begin slowly to allow the tapes to loop ( just like any other form of conditioning ) without avoiding , indulging , or interpreting them . They were “ recorded ” without your knowledge or consent , and they really have nothing to do with you . When the “ golden oldies ” are not spun around a fictitious center of experience by the motor of interest and attention , the passive allowing I describe in this chapter enables the loops to wind down on their own over time .
When you begin from the standpoint that there’s a “ you ” who has a core wound or who has been traumatized , then you can and will spend decades trying to heal it . You may go to psychotherapy , try various forms of self - development , employ positive thinking , and attend endless transformation seminars and workshops , but something will always seem to be missing .
The ultimate healing comes by way of discovering that the core of what you are , boundless awareness , cannot be wounded or traumatized because you have no objective qualities that could be impacted . At the same time , I want to reiterate the importance of not underestimating the pain and power of trauma and wounding . Like all conditioning , trauma and wounds need to be honored , respected , and embraced in a relative sense . With this overall non - dual approach to shadow integration as the foundation , there’s ample room for employing traditional and alternative therapeutic modalities that might help heal your body - mind in a relative sense . Follow your intuition about what’s best for you , and seek professional psychotherapeutic care if you are struggling beyond what you are able to cope with .
powerful energy of intimate , purifying self -
You may have met some people , maybe even non - dual teachers , who give the impression of not caring about anything or anyone , of being uninterested . They “ stink of Zen ” to use the old saying , and are unapproachable , unenjoyable , or uncomfortable to be around . Of course they don’t care about that ! Thought can trick you into mistaking emotional aloofness or “ witness consciousness ” for awakening , but those are divided states of consciousness that keep the messiness of manifestation at bay . If you are numbing out or giving off an energy of not caring , you might not be suffering , but you won’t be feeling much of anything . You will be like an artificial flower with no fragrance or with the odor of cheap plastic .
Nisargadatta Maharaj used a lovely phrase that applies beautifully in this context : “ affectionate awareness . ” You can think of the “ boundless ” aspect as the masculine principle and the “ loving ” or “ affectionate ” aspect as the feminine principle ( by “ principle ” I mean a universal pattern of life energy rather than a gender norm ) .
In other words , although awareness is spacious , it is not cold and uncaring like space ; it is imbued with a warmth , benevolence , affection , tenderness , and intimacy that pours itself into your felt experience of life .
Take a moment to put your hand over your heart ; what you feel is not cold and lifeless but throbbing with warmth and life energy . Be kind to your heart , and your heart will be kind to others . This is the true meaning of ahimsa , which means “ nonviolence . ” Ahimsa is a key virtue in many Indian religions and was the foundation of Gandhi’s political and social activism . The fact of the matter is that you cannot be nonviolent with others without first being nonviolent with yourself .
Instead of being harsh , coldly detached , or “ checked out , ” I’m suggesting that you shine your warm radiance on whatever arises with an aware sunbeam of lovingkindness . That way , you’re wisely unattached ( rather than coldly detached ) but simultaneously willing to participate in life with affection — that is , to feel alive . With boundless , loving awareness as your overall reference point rather than a false psychosomatic self , conditions are free and warmly welcome to be exactly what they are in any given moment .
Try allowing awareness to kiss the shadow as softly as you would kiss a sleeping baby on the forehead . This softness allows you to develop the capacity to be at ease with the full range of life in all its expressiveness and dynamism . I can tell you from a tremendous amount of experience that softening has miraculous powers and that hardening simply does not work .
Cuddling : Instead of pushing the shadow away , think of relating to the shadow as though you were cuddling with it in a warm bed . It’s one thing to cuddle with pleasant states , but you know that you’re a true lover when you cuddle equally with painful states . Whenever an unpleasant thought , sensation , feeling , or emotion arises in the body - mind , the tendency for most people is to push it away , to kick it out of bed . However , when you kick something out of bed , it keeps returning and pestering you , begging to be loved . When you pull it closer and cuddle with it , however , you turn your enemy into your lover . The key to cuddling with negative states , like anger and hatred — which have extremely sharp , life - threatening claws — is to soften . I know it sounds counterintuitive , but it works .
It’s important to do this exercise at home alone whenever shadow material arises in your system and also in your daily life so there’s a seamless flow between all areas of your life . Get creative with your use of time ; for example , you might apply this technique in traffic or in a checkout line at the store .
By doing this , you are shifting into the macrocosmic context of boundless awareness . It’s important to shift into the macrocosmic level as soon as possible because the sooner you get perspective on a shadow , such as an addictive impulse , the more likely you will be not to avoid it or act it out . It’s incredibly difficult at first , but it does become easier with earnest practice .
Within this macrocosmic context , passively allow all the conditioned thoughts and sensations to circulate through your body - mind in the form of raw energy . Don’t avoid the conditioning by pretending it’s not there , don’t indulge the conditioning by acting it out , and don’t mentally label the conditions arising in you . Simply allow the thoughts to flow and allow yourself to feel the flow of sensations in your system within the larger context of boundless awareness .
Be gentle , kind , affectionate , and compassionate with yourself . Relax . Soften . Permeate the bodily sensations with the warm golden sunlight of loving awareness while simultaneously remaining in the state of formless attention . Sit with the shadow in this way for as long as it takes for it to subside .


Most people are so habituated to focusing on one specific thought after another that the attention recoils when it’s invited to dwell peacefully between two specific thoughts. Thoughts have a “grabby” and “sticky” quality or, as I will discuss in the next chapter, a hypnotic pull. But the really good news is that this hypnotic pull can be weakened or dispelled over time with practice.
"Spontaneity can come only when the intellect is unguarded, when it is not protecting itself; and this can happen only from within. That is, the spontaneous must be the new, the unknown, the incalculable, the creative, that which must be expressed, loved, in which the will as the process of intellect, controlling, directing, has no part.Observe your own emotional states and you will see that the moments of great joy, great ecstasy, are unpremeditated; they happen, mysteriously, darkly, unknowingly."

This technique takes practice , but it is not too difficult to get the hang of and even to master . Conscious suffering is immediately liberating in that it provides relief from the deterministic drive to express something like an emotional reaction or a compulsion , and it also slowly reconditions the body - mind over a period of time to be in alignment with truth . In other words , the “ timeless process ” I’m describing here is both sudden and evolutionary .
Once you begin to sit with the shadow in this way , many unusual energetic phenomena may occur . You might feel dense heaviness in the body - mind , strong kundalini - type energy in your system , or an impulse to be physically active . Despite the fact that they can be alarming , all these states are healthy signs that your energy - body is being activated and rewired . As long as you’re not avoiding or indulging the energy and are sure to keep a healthy macroscopic perspective , these states are harmless . For example , as you are becoming integrated and certain patterns and densities are imploding , you might want to sleep for hours , you may feel extremely asocial , or you may become extremely sensitive to noise and crowds .
On the other hand , as certain patterns and densities are exploding , you might feel lots of excited energy and an impulse to exercise , which is an important signal from the intelligence of the body to shake out the stale or stagnant energies that may have built up over many years of suppression . If that is the case , you might consider doing some somatic - based therapeutic modalities , such as ecstatic dance , Authentic Movement , or even conventional physical exercises , such as running , pushups , or jumping jacks . You may even find yourself spontaneously shaking your hands in the air , clapping , or making unusual movements and gestures as your body releases energy . Sauntering or even playing in nature can be very soothing , healing , and balancing during these times .
Every body - mind is different ; just follow what feels right to you , trusting the innate intelligence of your system to show you the way . The body is an ancient repository of intuitive , non - conceptual wisdom . We have simply not been taught to notice or trust its wisdom , relying instead on mental knowledge , which is always at least one step removed from life itself .
I want to give you a heads - up about sitting with the more deeply rooted traumas , tendencies , and fears . In the beginning , thoughts and sensations will continue to run strongly , especially if you’re dealing with something like childhood trauma , an addictive impulse , or the existential fear of sickness or death . This work is not easy ; it is sometimes excruciating . As you allow the raw energy to circulate in your system without avoiding , indulging , or interpreting it , the energy will likely cause a terribly uncomfortable burning sensation in your body - mind , prompting you to want to run for the hills . Rather than being a sign that something is wrong , that means it’s working !
If you have an addiction that is out of control , for instance , you should never feel alone , as there are many wonderful conventional and alternative healthcare professionals working today ; in addition to traditional licensed therapists , for example , you might also consider working with a licensed transpersonal therapist who’s trained in one or more wisdom traditions . There’s an abundance of help out there ; don’t feel shy or embarrassed about availing yourself of it if you feel that it might benefit you . The work I present here for your consideration will ideally complement rather than necessarily replace whatever holistic regimen for health feels right to you .
I also want to say something about old tendencies that continue to arise after awakening . Many people feel as though the arising of old tendencies displaces the awakened state , but that is not necessarily true . From the perspective of awakening , old tendencies do not displace the awakened state ; they arise in it .
I want to be clear that this pointer does not give you permission to act out your old tendencies unconsciously or to hide behind some rationale based on a conceptual understanding of the non - dual teachings , which can lead to some awfully nihilistic and harmful behavior . It’s not a “ get out of jail free ” card . Do your best to remain conscious , but when something like anger or annoyance arises , I suggest that you apologize sincerely to whoever may have been hurt as a result , dust yourself off , and get back on the horse ( which is a metaphor for remaining steadfastly committed to awakening and to the evolution of consciousness even when you make relative mistakes ) .
When something like anger or annoyance arises , it’s wise to sit with the energy of it in the spirit of the microcosmic perspective in order to meet and integrate it in a healthy way . It’s rarely helpful to analyze “ why ” it arose and never helpful to punish yourself over it . As with all uncomfortable sensations in the body , it is helpful to sit with the energy when it arises as soon as possible , not to analyze it but to acknowledge and integrate that energy into your system rather than ignoring it or pretending it’s not there . If the sense of the separate self falls away altogether , you may be able to ignore it , but that is not a healthy strategy in the early stages of awakening because the false self - sense can easily misuse this pointer to substantiate itself at subtle levels .
We can thus see that a work of art is really but a vehicle , a means by which we are led towards the experience . It is truly creative . We feel what the artist himself felt at the time of creation : a spontaneous offering free from all desire for approval .
How can I free myself from mental confusion ? Simply be aware of it . Observe how you function without the slightest idea of changing anything . Vigilance purifies the mind and sooner or later will place you knowingly beyond it .
Once you free yourself from the idea , “ I am my body ” and the consequences of this idea , you will awaken to your natural state of being . Give yourself up entirely to this discovery . True awareness cannot be obtained by projecting known factors in terms of concepts and perceptions . What you are fundamentally cannot be experienced through reason and is only reached once you eliminate what you are not .
A wilful ego hinders you from being . The witness must enter upon the scene , enabling the ego to be recognized for what it is , an object . This witness is a pedagogical device that opens the door to being .
The ego cannot “ know ” itself because it identifies with what it thinks , feels , experiences . For the ego , there is nothing but resistance , defense , agitation . It is the witness that shines forth and shows up the ego for what it is , an illusion .
The role you play on the world’s stage has no meaning other than the clear - sightedness with which you play it . Don’t lose yourself in your performance‌ —‌ this only blurs the vision of your inner being .
Disinterested action does not bind you but , on the contrary , leaves you entirely free . Live in the moment , simply be .
Making a choice depends upon memory and easily becomes slavery . Live as being and you will awaken to bliss .
As I said , sensations such as we know them are conditioned feelings which belong to the “ I am the body ” idea . It is in this superimposition that the person , the I , finds a hold , for the person needs to locate itself either in sensations or in ideas .
The only way to become free from conditioning is to look without memory , without the accomplice to the conditioning .
Let whatever feelings appear within you come up without visualizing or concentrating on them . In letting the feeling appear before the witness “ I , ” before attention without periphery or center , the body goes through several degrees of elimination , for all superimposition dissolves before this witness . You will observe a letting go of the conditioning . The emphasis that was wrongly put on the conditioning so as to reassure the person , now switches to the observation , to the witnessing , and you will soon find yourself to be the light beyond the witnessed . This is your natural state of total expansion which is energy , vacant and light .
At first the new body sensation will be fragile and you may be solicited by the old patterns . But the body has an organic memory , a memory of its natural state of ease , which , once reawakened and sustained , will sooner or later become permanent .
You speak of this new body - sensation as energy . Is this feeling more or less stagnant or does it vibrate ? This new body sensation does not belong to the neuro - muscular system , it is of a much finer nature . It suffuses and radiates in the space around you . This energy is of such a nature that it knows no hindrance , it permeates all that is an obstacle to the physical body , it is beneficial , it is love .
When the sense organs are freed from past conditioning they cease grasping , de - contract and are receptive to the newness of every moment .
The subtle body we are speaking about is completely free from the physical structure of the body . Its energy is completely unconditioned , it belongs to the real body , the energetic body . This energy is capable of burning up all the conditioning buried deep in our nerves and muscles . It purifies the physical body of the conditions and sensations imposed by the “ I am the body ” idea , by the person who needs to feel himself localized and secured . This person acts through likes and dislikes , through fear , actions which in turn react on the neuro - muscular
It is only through this subtle body that the conditioned movements of the physical body can be freed . Let us consider some asanas , or physical postures . First of all , we carry out the movement exclusively with the subtle body . We must be aware , alert , so that the physical body remains completely vacant , for in the beginning whenever we move the body structure , memory , habit intervenes causing a reaction on the neuro - muscular plane . So when we do a movement with this fine energetic body , the movement must be completely empty of all habitual reflexes . Only when we feel this vacancy can we introduce our physical body to the movement . But now the physical body moves within the expanded body and the movements appear in a new way . It is important not to let the conditioned sensations take over again , but to knowingly sustain the feeling of emptiness . This is the only way we can creatively proceed with the body , otherwise we reinforce the conditioning .
In playing cricket, etc, bowling action, etc--free from conditioning.
Usually this energy does not arise with the same intensity in all parts of the body . Certain parts are particularly gifted in the actualization of this subtle sensation , for example , the palms of the hands or the inside of the mouth . These may well be the first parts of the body to which this subtle energy will appear most intensely . If we give attention to the palm of the hand without representing it or making any sort of effort , if we give the tactile sensation the possibility of springing to life of its own accord , then it will spread throughout our whole body . So first find the starting point and then let the energy flow out from there .
In the same way some forms of body movement can help us become conscious of and locate the parts of the body that are overburdened , solid , dense and congested . They help to free us from fixed ideas of what the body is and enable us to nourish our body with breath . All this is of great value , provided it is carried out with knowledge and great sensitivity . By this I mean that the movements are enacted in awareness , point to that non - objective perspective which is the subject of this talk . All mechanical exercise reinforces the conditioning .
Exercise, cricket, walking, etc.
Letting the movements of your body and mind follow their natural course does not mean passively indulging and identifying with them . This only leads to servitude and misery .
You must distinguish between passive letting go and active letting go . In active letting go you remain totally present , clear - sighted , uninvolved and actively alert . Gradually the ego loses its grip until it is reabsorbed into pure awareness . Seeing things no longer from a center is the first step towards permanent freedom , which can only take place if we are free from any form of projection or expectation .
It may take some time because in the beginning you may not be accustomed to looking at yourself . In exploring the boredom or lack you will find you are no longer lost in it , because you will be taken more by the exploration than the object . You will find space within you and the explored . You are no longer stuck in the boredom , the perception , and at a certain moment it suddenly dissolves , and you find yourself in present clarity .
Simply observe their coming and going . Neither refuse them nor encourage them . In no way direct them . Remain impersonally alert . You will soon feel that thoughts , feelings and sensations appear in this directionless alertness , your openness . They exist only because you are , thus their appearing points to their homeground , the real you . At first you will find that you keep interfering with your thoughts , suppressing or being taken by them . You do this because of the insecurity felt by an ego about to die , an isolated ego . But when you are free from the mental habits of activity and passivity you will find yourself in your natural quiet attention .
It is not dependent on the absence of thought . It is that in which thoughts appear and disappear . It is ‘ behind ” thought . So don’t be violent or brutal with yourself in the hope of freeing yourself from agitation but be clear - headed . In simple openness which is welcoming you will come to accept and get to know your negative feelings , desires and fears . Once welcomed in non - directed attention these feelings will burn themselves up , leaving only silence . Be alert , ready for each and every appearing and you will soon find yourself the uninvolved spectator of your thoughts . Once this is an established fact , whether thoughts come to mind or not you will not be bound to them .
When you are active or passive regarding the coming and going of feelings and thoughts , you see and act from the ego - center but when you come to know the illusory nature of this center you are automatically out of the process . It is the sudden death of all directed energy .
The moment you no longer believe you are the body and mind the energy used up in this error will be freed . Leave the mind and body free to be what they are and you will no longer be their slave . They are only fragments of the whole which you are . Simply take note of your imperfections and this awareness will take care of them . Once you understand that you are not the body and the mind , you can then accept whatever happens . Understanding your fundamental autonomy brings you to an attitude of total acceptance .
Every single thing is seen in the light of this welcoming , appears and disappears within it . As a result , things attain their full significance and harmony reestablishes itself . This welcoming is an alert awareness , uninhabited by the past . It allows whatever presents itself to unfold in and point to the welcoming , without being limited by the ego or deformed by memory .
This quiet mind of which I am speaking is not the absence of thought . The absence of thought is a state produced artificially but the mind free from agitation has its own rhythm , its own pulsation . Between these pulsations are gaps of which one must be aware . They are not an absence or a blank state . They are full , presence . Allow yourself to be taken by them .
It is in non - action that all action is accomplished . You are not the doer of your acts , you are the awareness from which action stems .
The idea of helping is anticipation . It is action which comes out of reaction . See the deep motive of your desire to help . Real helping , as I said , comes out of non - action . When the world asks for help , help of course , help with discrimination but don’t be a helper . What do you mean , “ help with discrimination ” ? Give to your fellow what he needs to accomplish what life asks of him . Do not impose on another your idea of how he should best live .
You have conceptualized your seeing , because you live in concepts . You have made a thought of being lost and being busy . By seeing I don’t mean see intellectually ; real seeing is direct perception as we discussed earlier . It is facing the facts , the sensation , the state of things without a justifier , controller , without rationalizing or thinking about them . There is no seer in seeing . It is an instantaneous apperception that occurs when you no longer try to escape the facts . Then all activities are in you but you are not in them . You will no longer feel lost in activities , no longer feel identified with them . On the contrary activities are lost in you .
One should neither want to breathe or want to stop breathing . There must not be any volition . Simply watch the coming and going of the breath as you watch a cloud or a bird . You will see that your breathing is full of tension . In letting it simply function your breath will come to its natural organic movement .
You must simply observe it . Soon attention will shift to this observing and not the object you observe . You will be attention , attention without object . This might seem to be a meaningless way to talk about attention because we are accustomed to being attentive towards something . But pure attention is absolutely empty of all direction . It is not focused on an object , it is free of any memory . It is simply expanded alertness .
Striving to improve or to progress only confuses us even more . Outward appearances may lead us into believing we have reached a state of stability , that changes are taking place , that we are progressing and are on the threshold of grace . But in fact nothing has changed . We have merely rearranged our furniture . All this activity takes place in the mind , it is a figment of imagination .
it . There is nothing to do to bring it closer , nothing to be learned . See only that you are constantly trying to go away from what you are . Stop wasting time and energy in projecting . Live this stopping , not lazily and passively , but live the alertness that is found in the stopping of expectation and anticipation . This also is your sadhana .
He should quickly come to moments of clarity which convince him that he has found the truth . He must feel himself more autonomous . If not , he must not stay for secondary reasons , compensations . Real doubt is when you know moments of truth , of non - doubt , and then you fall again in the old patterns . Ask the question “ Who doubts ? ” and live with it .
You have taken note , you have already seen yourself being carried away by your thoughts . Just seeing it implies a transfer of energy away from being lost in your usual thought patterns towards reality . There is already some distance , so as other thoughts occur , quite a different attitude will settle within you and you will eventually find yourself outside the whole process . In the end you will become aware of a current of energy preceding each thought . The continuous swinging between having and becoming will die out too and you will be absorbed into the present , “ now . ” Then there is peace , silence , tranquility , but no personal identity to be silent .
Seeing.
Taking note does not mean you jot it down in your mental diary and forget about it . Here you make it a concept . You have emphasized the fact , not the seeing . This is the lazy way , the passive way . Taking note means that you remain alert , you see the fact and the alertness remains after seeing the fact .
Seeing
See how the seeing acts on you , how it feels to be the seer . The background is emphasized . This is where the transfer of energy occurs .
Seeing
choiceless . Live more and more from the impersonal , and you will one day knowingly be in this impersonal presence . Here , what we call everyday life takes root and flourishes . Here , there is no person bound by fear , desire or anxiety , to intervene or interrupt the natural flow of life . From what you have said you would think that everyday life was nothing but a burden . Who for ? Drop the who , and you will soon see that there is no burden to bear .
Well , rid yourself of what others have made of you and you will be what you are . It is possible . Bare yourself completely . Eliminate all acquired characteristics , they are not really you . They are just a lot of habits held in place by memory .
When taken to be a separate entity , thought is used by most people as a tool of aggression and defense . Thought is composed of the past , memory , but is quite capable of realizing its own limitations , and ultimately gives way to its source , stillness , being . It arises from silence and loses itself in silence . Thus its function is to point towards that from which it arises , the ultimate which is unthinkable .
The ego is nothing but a thought amongst many others . It is a product of memory , of the past . Believing itself to be a separate entity , it protects itself by building a screen and reacts against anything likely to menace this supposed existence , supposed continuity . This belief is the cause of agitation , worry and dispersed activity .
Being uninvolved with this movement , this dispersal , this sterile swinging between past and future , puts to rest the energies that sustain these habit - patterns , and we finally awake to liberating awareness . Then the energies converge vertically in the eternal now . Only awareness which has nothing to do with mental activity , which is free from all reference to the past , free from bodily and psychological habits , free from selection and repetition can open the door to spontaneous understanding . Instantaneous understanding consumes error and the energy which previously constituted the error shifts away from it and integrates with truth that is being .
When I say , “ There’s nothing to do , ” I mean there’s nothing to project and no one who does . Live without memory . There is nothing passive in the not - doing . It is supremely alert , a mental and physical readiness , a whole - hearted welcoming of life as it comes to you . This welcoming is not with a view to fatalistic surrender in which there is still the residue of achieving something . It is welcoming for its own sake . Welcoming , openness , is the nature of life .
Intentional thought makes use of the already known , of memory . Spontaneous thought finds its roots in the ever - pervading source of life .
There can be no intention in the sayings or actions of a true teacher .
evidence . Living is to be found in the timeless “ now . ” So don’t accumulate more things , learn new ways to meditate or relax or purify . All this accumulation of states and sensations and techniques is nothing but vanity . It still belongs to the person who looks for security and confirmation . Conflict and problems all derive from the mind as it tries to justify its existence . When you see this suddenly , in the utter conviction of total awareness you become conscious of what you have never ceased to be : the unfathomable bliss of the Self .
Questions concerning the “ Who am I ? ” always derive from a state of disequilibrium . For whom is the world a problem ? For whom do pleasure , pain , like and dislike exist ? For the me who is but a creation of society , a fictitious entity . When the ego sees this fact quite clearly all its problems vanish .
The ego likes to direct things and circumstances according to its wishes , but its existence is only a shadow dependent on the body - mind that projects it . In the guru’s presence , the ego is not rejected , but the clear - sightedness the teacher conveys to us gradually rids us of the characteristics that the ego falsely appropriated . Sooner or later , this clarified ego is reabsorbed into its essence and homeground which is lucid presence . It only appears when called for and never again steals the light for itself .
Enlightenment is instantaneous but the mind becomes gradually clearer . The clarity of the mind brings about a relaxation from old patterns , a freeing of energy which in turn stimulates clearsightedness . It leads us towards living free from all striving to attain something , free from the tension brought about by waiting for something to happen , expectation .
When we don’t conceptualize fear it leaves us , for we no longer nourish it . It is condemned to die when seen in clear - sighted presence .
Your sleep will take on a new peacefulness and then the idea of recuperating whilst sleeping will change . First of all you will no longer dream , because dreaming is only an extension of the waking state , of the frustrations and defenses that have not been thoroughly lived in waking life .
In the evening when you go to bed prepare yourself , so as to avoid taking your daily worries with you . Observe whatever presents itself without becoming involved in the observation . For example , if you feel tired , really look at it and you will spontaneously find yourself uninvolved in it . Sooner or later the tiredness will cease to be the focal point of your attention and will disappear , burnt up by this awareness . Do the same with all the worries that preoccupy you . You will come to experience a feeling of harmony . Finally let your body sink into deep sleep .
When you wake up in the morning , don’t go immediately into a relation with objects . Stay in that moment before the old patterns return . It is your true being . First of all be deeply aware , let the ego and the world come to life later in your awareness .
When your body feels exhausted it is generally a result of your continual reacting . Once you are free of the ego , you will no longer feel tired , you will be free of all set patterns for they will not be able to take a hold on you . Of their own accord they will find their own conclusion within you . You will become much more supple when confronted by things which used to bother you , you will no longer feel overburdened by them but will recognize them to be purely mental patterns , clichés providing a false sense of security and stopping you from feeling fully alive .
If you wilfully try to sleep less , you are only imposing a discipline upon yourself . This is ridiculous , and of no interest at all from our standpoint . Sleep normally according to your body’s needs , it knows its needs better than you do .
Yes . It can come about quite unpredictably . Suddenly we feel a letting - go . We are no longer impelled to action by outside circumstances . Abruptly we become aware and the mind is calm , it returns to stillness . Don’t let these moments go by or take them for simply an absence of objects . You will be often invited by them , for example , before the appearing of a thought or action and after its disappearing . You may even be solicited during action , when you feel the action is in you but you are not in the action . Be alert for these invitations .
Of course ultimately both freedom and non - freedom are concepts . But to say “ act as if you are free ” is very striking . It stimulates spontaneous acting , function without a doer .
Voluntary Suffering: different from the ordinary suffering of humanity which is due to the action of habit and belief systems, expectations and desire; the result of the Conscious Intention to observe myself honestly, without judgment or trying to change what is observed; unlike ordinary mechanical suffering, Voluntary Suffering has the power to transform the Being.
Conscious, intentional inner labor to observe myself as I am, without judgment or trying to change what is observed; remembering myself in the midst of my daily life; voluntary suffering as a result of observing myself as I am, without buffers, lying, blaming, or justifying.
The fight-flight response reminds me to be kind and forgive, it calls me to conscious attention. Thus, instead of making it the enemy (trying to change it, fight it) I have transformed it into my ally and companion in the inner Work. Now there is no more insane fight within. There is cooperation, communication between the centers, harmonious inner working of the human biological instrument for the good of love and for the good of the other. This is unselfish love, objective love. And it does not depend on a feeling, although the feeling of love may be present, but it often is not when the other hurts me.
Instead, this kind of objective love depends solely on commitment and practice. Thus it is dependable and consistent, not subject to the tyranny of mood. Mood is like a hunter searching for a deer in the tall grass. If the deer remains still, unmoving, the hunter moves on. Cease identification with what you are not and the hunter has no more ammunition, your suffering is at an end.
the effort to change what is observed merely serves to further empower that which is observed and which “I” am making effort to change. Result? No change, habitual repetition of act—judgment of act—effort to change act—resulting guilt and condemnation when it does not change—further repetition of act. It is a cycle. It repeats. It can be predicted, because it is habitual. All habits are “i’s”.
Will of Attention: The fundamental, minimal ability to consciously direct the attention onto an object or inner process, even in the grip of identification, and when no other action is possible; the ability to see myself as I am in the midst of my daily life.
Negative Emotion: all fear-based emotions other than those related to present-danger to the organism; those emotions which are not love.
Intention: From the intellectual center, although it can be deeper, possibly from the Being; when it is combined with Wish from emotional center, it can be the beginning of Will (see also: Wish, Will).
Buffers: a system whose function is to protect the ego-structure and prevent me from seeing myself as I am; to prevent me from seeing the contradictions of various small “i’s” in me; composed of many things, among which are blame, justification, self importance, and self pity.
Attention: the act of focusing the mind, feelings, and Being on an object or process; the Being is Attention in a human body; Consciousness (see also: Being).
On the journey of the Warrior . . . instead of transcending the suffering of all creatures, we move toward turbulence and doubt however we can. We explore the reality and unpredictability of insecurity and pain, we try not to push it away. If it takes years—if it takes lifetimes—we let it be as it is. At our own pace, without speed or aggression. We move down and down. With us move millions of others, our companions in awakening from fear.
When I am present to the presence within (yet another level of self remembering), help arrives. Transformation is the result. The brain is re-ordered and the being is transformed.
Now I am a conduit, a “hollow bamboo” as Zen calls it. I am an objective receiver of higher emanations and an objective eater of vibratory energetic impressions. I am an efficient Work-unit in the Creation, maturely and responsibly assuming my lawful place, attuned, in harmony, lawfully aligned with the Creator. This is the highest level of self remembering.
The right hemisphere, once activated consciously, is now a conduit for the unknown, for “insight” and the flow of wisdom. This is another form of meditation, meditation in action.
Now the left hemisphere can assume its higher function, as a passive servant of the right hemisphere which becomes more consciously active, and whose function is to receive input from higher centers.
On the other side, the right hemisphere is silent witness, observing without interference. As the multitude on the left cease to be fed on a regular basis, they quiet as well.
On one side of the island (brain), all of the various “i’s” exist with their multitude of agendas, the asylum, trying to grab the attention.
Here’s how that works. When I consciously focus the activity of the left hemisphere on finding the body and sensing it, placing attention in the upper part of the prefrontal cortex, this occupies the left hemisphere of the brain so that it cannot continue its random and compulsive searching and sorting of its contents. Now it has found its rightful place in the instrument and slowly, slowly it will come to understand its lawful place. It will come to understand what it can usefully and efficiently do in the operation of the instrument.
In other words, the brain is being re-ordered and transformed in the presence of “insight” into wholly new and unknown configurations. This is what meditation and Self Observation do. Lehrer says, “An insight is a fleeting glimpse of the brain’s huge store of unknown knowledge. The cortex is sharing one of its secrets” (45).
This path takes courage. Courage doesn’t come cheap. Courage is not for heroes, heroes don’t need it; courage is for cowards like me.0
If I do not interfere with this energy, steal it for selfish psycho-dramas or fantasy, negative emotions, and imagination, then the body is able to assume its higher objective function as a transformational instrument, to feed the Creator, or higher centers. Everything in the universe must eat, this is objective law. The Creator is not exempt.
An objective eater of vibratory energetic impressions is the Work humans were created to do: to help the Creator maintain Its creation and to provide finer substances or food, both for the creation of a higher body within me and to feed higher beings such as the Earth, an angelic being.
My task is to consciously not inter fere with incoming energy, allowing the body to perform its higher functions. If I constantly steal this energy, the body remains fixated on the mammal level, a mere machine.
He was called Rudi, or Swami Rudrananda. Rudi was an objective eater of vibratory energy impressions and he taught others to do this as well. He worked with the higher centers. He would sit in a room with his students for hours and simply absorb the vibratory energy of incoming impressions, without interference NOTE: Wow, similarly I can dedicate my life, atleast for now, to allow the impressions within the family to be eaten consciously. I can be useful that way too.I don't have to try to stop them, family members, from not reacting to their helpless impressions.
I must begin to “eat” the vibratory energy of incoming impressions.
To do so, I must collect and store the vibratory energy of incoming impressions, rather than allowing the intellectual-emotional-complex to steal it and use it up in a useless display of endless, repetitive psycho-dramas and mechanical reactions.
Once conscience is awakened, then I am at the affect of higher centers voluntarily. By my practice I have issued the invitation which activates their influence in me. Conscience is the manifestation of higher centers in me. It is the law and compels the human being to act in a lawful manner, from basic goodness.
It comes from higher centers and is an act of grace; it is the Creator entering fully, lawfully, and by invitation only, into the human biological instrument.
Still there is no need to change anything I observe. Conscience will change everything, and in its own proper and appropriate time and way; I can change nothing and if I try I will make an awful mess of things, just as always.
Bear the unpleasant manifestations of others without complaint or outward show;
I no longer am comfortable being the cause of my Creator’s suffering. Period. Thus, I act at once when out of alignment to keep a clear conscience.
Even a mustard seed of conscience—the tiniest, microscopic trace of the mind and heart of our Creator—can become the most powerful force in the human biological instrument. You want miracle? What are you willing to pay to live in the miraculous? This mustard seed is the miracle of the Creator’s mind and heart placed in the human biological instrument. But you must pay to receive. And voluntary suffering is the only thing we have in us to pay with—it becomes the dearest coin
From “aim” I have ally. Now when my inner habitual tendencies arise daily, moment to moment, right alongside them is aim. In fact, at some point, these inner habitual tendencies shift and become inner “reminding factor” to remind me of my aims. Thus, they are transformed from weaknesses, flaws, into faithful servants of my Work; they are brought into my inner Work circle.* No longer do I fight against them and try to change them, but as they are, they serve my aims and help me. They feed conscience, which allows it to develop, grow, and mature.
Awakened conscience is the thing in me which can be trusted. Absolutely, always and in everything. Conscience is incapable of lying. It is what the Sufis call the True Friend within; it is the source of real help and guidance on the path. It is the Creator’s help in the individual soul’s journey towards union with Source.
there are those masters who have called the awakening of conscience “the awakening of consciousness.”
Our practice is to do two things with this suffering: see it and feel it. Period.
That is, if I continue to observe myself honestly, long enough, conscience will awaken in me; that is lawful and unavoidable. It is a by-product of honest self observation.
The first thing, and the most important thing, to be understood about the path of self observation without judgment or trying to change what is observed is this: the path of self observation is a path of awakening conscience.
That mercy I to others show, That mercy show to me.
Conscience depends upon an understanding of objective suffering. The least we are asked to be able to do as completed man is to suffer the unpleasant manifestations of others toward ourselves and others without resentment, to take no action against wrongs done us, and to have compassion for those whose nature is more powerful than their being. (E.J. Gold. The Joy of Sacrifice, 99)
Mood is like a hunter searching for a deer in the tall grass. If the deer remains still, unmoving, the hunter moves on.
The fight-flight response reminds me to be kind and forgive, it calls me to conscious attention. Thus, instead of making it the enemy (trying to change it, fight it) I have transformed it into my ally and companion in the inner Work. Now there is no more insane fight within. There is cooperation, communication between the centers, harmonious inner working of the human biological instrument for the good of love and for the good of the other. This is unselfish love, objective love. And it does not depend on a feeling, although the feeling of love may be present, but it often is not when the other hurts me. Instead, this kind of objective love depends solely on commitment and practice. Thus it is dependable and consistent, not subject to the tyranny of mood. Mood is like a hunter searching for a deer in the tall grass. If the deer remains still, unmoving, the hunter moves on. Cease identification with what you are not and the hunter has no more ammunition, your suffering is at an end.
Thus, the contamination becomes my ally: it becomes an “inner reminding factor” which takes me immediately to my inner aims: conscious attention, kindness, generosity, forgiveness, hard work. The fight-flight response reminds me to be kind and forgive, it calls me to conscious attention.
Let’s say the other hurts my feelings and triggers in me the survival instinct: fight or flight. What this simple (but not easy) practice does is this: instead of trying to change the habit—which is the result of judgment, otherwise why the desire to change it?—I merely begin to give it space within, so that the survival instinct (fight or flight) has the space for its natural, biological, genetically programmed response. I give it space when the other hurts me for any reason. And in so doing, now there is no war against—so no unnecessary tension in the body. Now the struggle is for something. What? For objective attention and calm, reasonable, kindness in my response to the one who has hurt
In order to facilitate this practice, may I suggest the following: whenever you are reading this or any book, but especially wisdom literature: keep your spine straight and both feet on the floor (as you are reading this) which will facilitate a certain level and kind of self observation and self remembering. To be radically present to the presence within, the essential being, requires that the attention be focused on bodily sensation (instinctive center) where the attention is anchored and grounded, present to the presence within is what I am calling “the practice of radical presence.” I prefer attention centered in the forehead or at the top of the head, other schools place it variously at the navel, the solar plexus, or the heart center.
Self observation attracts help; it is a fundamental attractive force in the universe. It allows me to operate more efficiently and more objectively in the field of the intellectual-emotional-complex. It is the savior. It is consciousness coming to know itself, learning how to learn and create, while doing the least amount of harm. It is objective love in the process of becoming.
Unless a third force enters into that action-reaction cycle, no substantive change is ever possible. That third force is self observation and its very existence is substantive change.
Self observation with compassion simply means that I stop judging myself and just see and feel whatever arises. Judgment is a trap I fall for every time and is not productive, useful, or compassionate. It is harsh, rigid, and keeps me trapped in an unending cycle of action and reaction.
If I see it and feel it, I don’t have to be it. If I’m not willing to see it, I don’t have any choice.
Unlike thought from memory which operates linearly and step by step, inspiration gives me the whole picture in its entirety all at once, not separated and divided into pieces and steps. It operates as an entire circle, not a straight line.
Inspiration is a fundamentally different form of feeling; in fact it is feeling and not emotion.
Conscience receives direct information from these centers in the form of intuition and inspiration.
The cessation of movement sends a direct signal to the Creator. It is called in ancient traditions “The Invitation.” What enters only upon invitation is a flow of information from higher centers which are the source of wisdom. Some say these centers exist outside of, but directly connected to, the human biological instrument, but I am unsure of this.
In the shamanic tradition this cessation of movement towards or away from thought is called “not doing.”
At that point, when the memory thinks, there is not inner movement towards or away from the thought; this movement towards or away from thought is identification.
The dominance of the intellectual-emotional-complex depends upon continuity of thought. Break that continuity and its dominance ceases because judgment ceases. What is produced when this continuity is broken is a “shift in context.” I no longer operate from an agreed-upon definition of reality, but from reality itself. I operate from what is, exactly as it is, not from meaning supplied by the intellectual-emotional-complex. This entails an acceptance of reality without desire to change anything. It entails non-interference with what is. I take my cues from direct experience of reality in the moment, not from memory which is the past, or the past projected forward, as what it calls the future.
I live in the unknown, in organic ignorance, which is intelligent because it is in direct contact with the source of wisdom, without the interference of memory.
The intention of the Work is to produce freedom in us. There’s only one way that freedom can be produced in us and that is to choose Work mind over neurotic mind. It has to be a conscious choice, and the only way that we’ll ever make a choice that’s conscious, fully conscious, is to see neurotic mind in its totality, in its death. To see it for what it is—empty of all substance, empty of all possibility, empty of all creativity, empty of all genuine, human feeling, empty of heart, empty of mind, empty of everything except its own mechanical survival impetus. That’s it. Until we see it that way, until we see our lives, our love for our parents, our drive for sexual fulfillment, our taste for fine food, our love of good music—until we see all of it as nothing, absolutely nothing but totally mechanical, dead slavery to neurotic mind— we’ll never choose the Work.
The beauty of this transformative being-shock is that the being which emerges from its hiding is simple, not complicated. It is not cunning or devious. It is not divided, it is a single entity. It trusts reality because it is real. It does not endlessly repeat the same worn and tired, non-functional, unworkable patterns or habits. It is a presence and it operates in the present efficiently. It is a human being. It is sane.
Now, mastery of mood and of the body’s functions is possible because the intellectual-emotional-complex has been transformed from master to willing servant. Unnecessary thinking no longer dominates the head-brain. This is called “stopping the world” in the ancient shamanic traditions.
When the Work is the active principle, basic goodness emerges. Virtues arise. The being assumes responsibility for taming and training the mammal, a function which before this has been performed by the master, the teacher.
But first I have to see it 10,000 times or more before I understand that I am not the patterns I am observing: this is the awakening of intelligence.
As long as the being is not conscious of itself, it cannot see what is consuming it. If I see it, I don’t have to be it.
The only “progress” is seeing and feeling the pattern as it takes place = self observation without judgment or identification.
The only thing which can change in this cycle is my relationship to it = non-identification with its patterns and with my blind spot = self-hatred. Identification can stop.
Memory, the thinker, the left hemisphere of the brain, is an electrochemical computer complex programmed to repeat its patterns. Simple. Its whole existence is built around this single aim: to maintain, preserve, and repeat its patterns. The only thing which can change in this cycle is my relationship to it = non-identification with its patterns and with my blind spot = self-hatred. Identification can stop.
It is now clear that the intellectual-emotional-complex will not stop. The only possibility is that my identification with it cease, “cold turkey” as Mister E.J. Gold has called it.
Now, after years of self observation, I realize at this crucial, life-changing point that if I do not take responsibility for my life, my thoughts, my emotions, my habits, and the functions of the human biological instrument, then I will go to my death enslaved and identified with my madness.
Anyone who practices self observation faithfully, without judgment or changing what is observed, with ruthless self-honesty and a relaxed body, will sooner or later come to the point of horror. It is guaranteed. It is the law. It is my experience. This is what I am calling “being-shock” and it is overwhelming. I see that I am a total, helpless slave to my psychology and that it will never change. The only thing that can ever change is my relationship to what is observed: without identification.
Slowly, I begin to trust the reality I observe more than the reality being fed to me by the intellectual-emotional-complex, which denies my basic goodness and creates a world of fear, all to support the illusion of security and control.
This is my only hope for becoming more conscious and not at the mercy of habit; if I see the habit often enough, say , times or more, then I can begin to predict where, when, and how it will manifest exactly as it has so many times before, and I may be prepared before it arises. I may be able to choose another course.
must be verified by your own personal experience. I am no master, merely a good mechanic. Safety lies in no longer taking the word of others for anything. Too long we have followed blindly, like sheep, like herd animals following the leader, even when the leader leads the herd over a cliff or into war.
Verify, verify, verify everything for yourself. Free yourself of the habits of a lifetime, of blind following, of not thinking for yourself. There is no better or safer path to freedom.
this if she began with faith, her faith is strengthened by understanding gained from self observation without judgment; if she began with no faith—as I did—then she will find that she has gained faith. So you see the wonderful irony of it? This is not a faith-based path, because faith is a gift of grace; it comes from the Creator* to those in need of it.
When you are identified with the mind you cannot be very intelligent because you become identified with an instrument, you become confined by the instrument and its limitations. And you are unlimited—you are consciousness.
Good teaching would help me to understand not that I have a soul, but that I am a soul, and I exist for a brief moment in a human biological instrument,* a human body. We are souls having a human experience.
The souls who are sent to Earth are sent to a kindergarten for undeveloped souls; we are souls in embryo. We are sent here to develop ourselves, with help. We cannot do it alone. And help is always available, if I have the eyes to see it and the ears to hear it. Of all the sources of help available to the soul in its development, none is more crucial, more helpful, more revealing, or more direct and personal than self observation.
Very intelligent people may learn slowly. The learning which arises from self observation happens at exactly the pace with which I am able and willing to observe, no more, and no faster. Thus it is safe and it is tailored...
it is difficult for the human mind to believe, is thisthe act of self observation is the only change a human being needs to make in her behavior; everything else, all fundamental changes in behavior, emotion, and thinking arise as a by-product of this practice.
Thus, self observation changes what is observed within. I do not have to change anything; in fact, to attempt to do so is error and leads to trouble. I don’t know what to change or how to change it.
And yet—ponder this—it is to this center, the slowest of all the centers, the center which is always the last to know, which we assign the impossible burden of running the life. This is not what it was designed to do, but what it has been forced to do by our culture and our lifestyle.
Mature souls know how to work and they do their work. Buddha calls this “The way of perfection” (Dhammapada, ). Self observation is, therefore, a lawful practice and a way of power, so it must be practiced according to its laws. Bad habits multiply and lead to trouble, whereas the careful and honest practitioner will find oneself always having a source of inner help in one’s difficulties and struggles.
Sensation is always a present-phenomenon only. I must remember that “I am here now” in this place, in this moment. Otherwise it is merely imagination, pretending, all from the intellect and without real grounding or presence.
Mood is like the weather—a cloud in the sky is not my concern, nor can I do anything about it but merely observe it; likewise, mood is the inner weather, a cloud which is passing through the inner sky.
Thus, for the mature soul, mood does not decide attitude. I am free to choose my attitude at any moment, regardless of circumstances internal or external.
Ruthless self honesty (from Mister Lee Lozowick’s teaching) also meanstell the truth about myself, no matter how bad it makes me look. This kind of honesty is crucial in self observation.
Without it, we join the mass of humanity, whose main concern is looking good in front of others. So this “ruthless self honesty” can be called the fourth law of self observation because it keeps me honest and in the process produces a beautiful byproduct which is humility.
Humility is a gift, it is grace, and it comes to one who works on self in an honest way.
The Work asks me to stand in this pain, doing nothing, trying to change nothing, judging nothing, simply feeling the pain totally without judging it good or bad, right or wrong. Simply stand in the pain and allow it to be sensed throughout the body. Emotional or psychological pain is energy in the body. Nothing else.
The body knows what to do with the energy but only when I do not interfere. But my habits interfereI think about the pain, I react to the pain, I judge the pain, I fight the pain, I try to “fix” the pain, it goes on and on. By my habitual behavior, I interfere.
But if I simply stand in the pain, not doing, sensing the body and the pain, then the body transforms the energy.
By identification I feed the pain; by observing without judgment and standing in the pain, sensing it in the body, it feeds methis is a meta-physical equation.
“An object in motion [pain] tends to stay in motion, unless an outside force [self observation without judgment] acts upon it.” NOTE: pain movement and non-movement of observation
Mister E.J. Gold has said, “The human biological machine is a transformational apparatus.” It knows what to do with the energy if I do not interfere. See this one time and you will never have the same relationship with your emotional pain again, cannot. Because clarity will have entered into the equation, and once clarity enters, even one time, I cannot be the same again. It does not mean the habits cease. Of course not. But my relationship to the habit is different. This makes all the difference in the world.
Self Observation is very difficult. The more you try, the more clearly you will see this. At present you should practice it not for results but to understand that you cannot observe yourselves. . . . When you try, the result will not be, in the true sense, self observation. But trying will strengthen your attention. (G.I. Gurdjieff. Views From The Real World, )
I am attention (consciousness), nothing else. The soul is only attention. As I am now, attention is very weak, damaged by all sorts of external influences. Mister Gurdjieff continued in the talk quoted above by saying, “Self observation is only possible after acquiring attention”
I can begin to notice my moods and how they shift. I can begin to notice my postures, how I sit, how I walk, my tone of voice, and my facial expressions. I can notice negative emotions. These provide me with a beginning practice in order to repair my attention-function.
If it is true that “I am attention”, then the development of attention is the development of the soul, and that is the task set forth for me upon taking a human body. It is why I am sent here to Earth, to develop as a soul through practical work on self.
Through will of attention, at first I can only observe with hindsight. That is, I will see that I was caught in a habitual thinking, emotional, or physical process and carried along in it without being conscious of it. I was identified with the habit and controlled by it. Judgment will follow. I will often be trapped by it and identified with it as well, thus carried rapidly into more unconscious habitual behavior. But there will be moments, soon after or long after, when I can observe what has happened to me“I snapped at him again when he ________ (fill in the blank).” And I can feel inside what this habit does to me and to my relationships. Thus, observation from hindsight begins to… NOTE: Taking advantage of ability to "hindsight"
I must choose consciously to look, to see, and to suffer my own behavior towards self and others. This is suffering of one kind, and it is different from the mechanical suffering stemming from habitual behavior, unconscious and endless. Instead, this is conscious suffering. After a long time, attention will be strengthened and I can have brief moments of clarity in the moment of identification. This is different from observation in hindsight. Though I may not have the will to stop the behavior in that moment, I will see very clearly that I am once again caught in an old habit pattern which I now can begin… NOTEHindsight continued... NOTE: Take advantage of "visualization" and "hindsight" to undo unreflective panic response.
Finally, after much longer patient and honest self observation, there will be moments when I can observe with foresight. That is, in the moment of identification with a habitual pattern of behavior, I will recognize it by observation, will remember myself in that moment (find myself), and be able to change direction because I know where such behavior is headed, it is always…NOTE: Hindsight (Insight) Foresight NOTE: Take advantage of "visualization" and "hindsight" to undo unreflective panic response.
Eventually, after long practice, observation with foresight blooms into its full maturityin this mature stage of self observation, the moment the energy of an incoming impression enters the body there is awareness, an alert attention, and before the intellectual-emotional-complex can grab the energy and use it for its own agendas, attention is calmly focused on bodily sensation; I remember myself. Thus there is no interference with the incoming energy of impressions and the body is able to act in its higher function as an “energy…
It is by the grace of the Creator that such a thing is given to all of us. Very few learn how to use…
The intellectual-emotional-complex demands with urgency that I identify with it and then express its desire of the moment = whatever “i” is arising and crying for attention. It asks me to separate, invites and urges separation from the grounded consciousness which I am and in which I reside. It invites suffering. And I gladly, eagerly do its wishes.
The practice of self observation simply asks me to find myself (self remembering) and then manage the bodybe still, stay in place, and notice what is arising moment to moment in the human biological instrument, without interfering in any way with what is observed. The urge is to interfere of course...NOTE: Yes, there is this urge to interfere. But I do not even reflect for a moment how am I interfering. Period. If I observe my efforts to interfere I would see I do not know. It can only happen when I ain't looking. It's unconscious.
Self observation strips me naked so that I see myself exactly as I am, not as I wish to be, not as I pretend to be in front of others, not as I imagine myself to be, but exactly as I am. It is not a pretty sight.
This is where the beauty of the self observation practice becomes clearI cannot see too much too soon, I can only see as much as I wish to see at any given moment before my defense mechanisms, created over years and years of habit, shield me from myself.
So at some point in my life I am likely to ask the key question which unlocks the gate to the spiritual life“Is this all there is to life?” That question can eventually lead me to a real master, a spiritual practice, and to the deep desire to know myself.
Remember Heisenberg’s uncertainty principleThe act of observation changes what is observed. This is such a simple understanding of my situation, and the beauty of the tool I am given as my birthrightthe ability to self observe.
“Unnecessary thought” = any thinking which is not solving a technical problem or communicating with others, not related to what is happening in the momentwhen I walk, there is just walking, no thought necessary; when I exercise, there is just the movement of the body, no thinking necessary; when I eat, just eat; when I stand, just standlike that—unnecessary thought can simply become a trigger, an internal “reminding factor” to help me refocus the attention on keeping the body relaxed. In this way, thought does not catch the attention and carry it off, capture it and consume it. NOTE: Reminder in doing any task or work
Inappropriate emotion can simply become a trigger, an internal “reminding factor” to help me refocus the attention on keeping the body relaxed, so the emotion does not catch the attention and carry it off, capturing and consuming it.
If I travel down the same neural and emotional pathways , times or more, even an idiot such as me will begin to notice that I have been here before, and always with the same result! That is because habit repeats, thus it is predictable. One very clear and useful definition of insanity is this repeating the same action and expecting different results.
Seeing the patterns of my inner life, noticing how things repeat, sensing the boredom and monotony of such a second-hand life, a longing for what is real and true begins to arise in me. This longing comes from being. The being begins to stir and awaken just a little.
Truth is the direct experience of life as love. This insight is gained by non-judgmental observation of what is, exactly as it is, without the mind’s commentary (unnecessary thinking) or fear (inappropriate emotion) or tension (unnecessary tension) or reference to the past or future (habit), but simple, silent, relaxed equanimity, acceptance of what is, as it is.
We do not even recognize inspiration and intuition as real or of any value in the educational process. That is because they do not come from intellectual center, but are received from higher centers, from the Creator. Remember yourself weary Traveler.
The mind’s main terror is that there are things which it does not know how to think about. Thought equates its absence, the absence of thought, with loss of control, and to thought, loss of control = death. Thought equates thinking with survival, as it was programmed to do—it is a binary computer after all, and can only think according to its programs. It is thus terrified of losing control = not thinking.
Thought gains its dominance and control by a simple devicenot being observed.
It requires for its control that we do not pay attention to our lives. It requires us to act from old, stored, borrowed belief systems programmed into us by others, beliefs which it has never had to examine or think about at all; all of that work was done by others. To have to do this work itself would be fearful, might separate us from the herd which put those beliefs into us, and would require it going into unknown territory, which it fears.
Memory is lazy; it does not want to do the impossible task to which it is assigned by ignorant education. So it takes everything for granted and is highly selective. Otherwise it would have to think about everything. This way, it can run on automatic pilot and spend most of its time doing what it loves to do most--fantasize. The....
I have known some, especially in the university, who thought that if they gave a fine talk or wrote a long article for the journals, this made them men of action. The Indians knew better. Before a warrior went into battle he would not speak. He went into the sweat lodge with others; they drummed and sang and prayed. Then for days he went into solitude, preparing his heart for his death. When he came out, ready to ride, his woman handed him axe and bow. No word was spoken.
Every phenomenon arises from a field of energiesevery thought, every feeling, every movement of the body is the manifestation of a specific energy, and in the lopsided human being one energy is constantly swelling up to swamp the other. This endless pitching and tossing between mind, feeling, and body produces a fluctuating series of impulses, each of which deceptively asserts itself as “me”as one desire replaces another, there can be no continuity of intention, no true wish, only the chaotic pattern of contradiction in which we all live, in which the ego has the illusion of will power and independence. Gurdjieff called this “the terror of the situation.” (Peter Brook. “The Secret Dimension,” )
But it is this flaw around which my psychology is constructed, and it rules the inner world by remaining invisible. What is more, and here is the keyI am addicted to my flaw! I believe in it and give my life to it. It is this which controls the intellectual-emotional-complex. It is this which captures and consumes attention. It is this which must be continuously fed. I like “petty tyrant” because that is exactly what it is and how it behaves. This was the term used often in shamanistic traditions. But for our purposes I prefer to call it “the blind spot” because this so simply and accurately describes its action upon my consciousnessit feeds upon available energy within, but is constructed in such a way as to be all but invisible to me in ordinary life.
Only by the most patient and honest self observation without judgment, over a long period of time, will a person gain the clarity, honesty, and strength necessary to see one’s own blind spot.
The advantage which I have over the blind spot is that such actions are totally predictable, and once I have seen them , times (or more—I am a slow learner), I can recognize them by their first appearance and know exactly where they will lead me—every time. Therefore, I can be ready for it before it ever arises by keeping attention focused on the body, and remaining present in a relaxed body, no matter what I am doing or what is going on around mefind myself, manage the body.
Relaxed body = honest body. The attention can’t be captured if it is in the right place = focused on bodily sensation and relaxing the body, no matter the action which has taken place (jealousy, envy, greed, lust, sorrow, a second piece of pie, etc.).
The second half of the feeding cycle follows the first half automatically, habitually, thus predictablyit is judgment of the action (which is identification). I am jealous, envious, lustful, angry, hateful, eat too much, say negative things, gossip, etc. Following that immediately is judgment of the action = the second half of the cycle. First the action, then the reaction—this is the law (Newton’s third law of motionFor every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.) When I try to change the action I observe in myself, I have only made one-half an observation; I have not completely observed the process I am trying to change. I have only seen one-half of that process, and based on incomplete information or observation, I am making a decision which endangers me and places my Work in jeopardy, because I know too little about what is good for me...
and I do not understand in what a delicate balance things are in my body. If I change one thing, everything changes and I may be left in a worse condition than when I started.
the judgment of the habit is the habit. The habit depends upon the judgment of it as bad, no good, in order to derive its power and strength. The judgment of the habit is the other half of the habit. The habit is not drinking, sugar, pornography, gossip—whatever I have observed—the habit is drinking (in this case) and judging myself for drinking = whole cycle, full circle, degrees. This full cycle keeps the self in its place, in lineself-hatred in my case. This is the underlying force behind judging what I observe. The ego depends upon me not being OK, upon having problems, upon being broken and then fixing the problem, repairing the damage. The ego = problem-and-fixing-the-problem. If there were no problems, thus nothing to fix, there would be no ego. Simple.
What gets fed grows stronger, this is the law.
Thus, the feeding cycle feeds attention and my inner attention (which is soul) grows stronger, able to focus for longer and longer periods of time without being caught.
Inner attention can only grow stronger if it is properly fed on a daily basis; thus the importance of the sitting practice—this gives me a half-hour uninterrupted, without distraction, to practice keeping the attention grounded and at home.
Every unnecessary thought, inappropriate emotion, and unnecessary tension is acting in the service of my blind spot and will inevitably and predictably lead to that blind spot and it will devour the attention once it has captured it. Thereforeobserve unnecessary thought, inappropriate emotion, and unnecessary tension in the body. Relax the body = honest body. Don’t judge, condemn, or criticize, just observe. Either I eat the bear, or the bear eats me.
Verify for yourself or continue to be a slave to borrowed knowledge, other people’s opinions and your own blind spot.
The effort to change what is observed is wasted energy—it never changes. It is habitual, mechanical, and responds to the effort to change it with redoubled efforts to capture and consume. Instead, what may be changed, slowly, slowly and patiently with accumulation of understanding via observation, is my relationship to what is observed—that is, I am not quite so easily identified with the dramas...
The effort to change what is observed is the result of judgment. Period.
Also, judgment is inevitably accompanied by unnecessary thinking. Therefore unnecessary thinking is a dead give-away that the labyrinth is casting its net. It is an instantaneous feedback mechanism. Thus, the basic rule of self observation is to observe unnecessary thinking. Finally, judgment is inevitably accompanied by unnecessary tension in the body. Thus, the basic rule of self observation is to observe unnecessary tension in the
No effort towards becoming more conscious, no matter how small, is ever wasted. This is a law of the Work. Every time I observe, something conscious (attention) in me is being fed, thus it grows, homeopathically, one grain of observation at a time. Nothing conscious is ever wasted. That is the law. I am not interested in “grand.” I am interested in steady, patient, careful, law-conformable efforts to “know myself.” This is our hope for freedom. Hope placed in the mind is madness. Hope placed in the emotions is sorrow and suffering. Hope placed in self observation is strength and wisdom It produces more consciousness because it feeds attention. Thus, I mature.
If, according to my nature, my response to the threat of pain is rage, then the accompanying action is fight. If, according to my nature, my response is terror, then the accompanying action is flight. Thus, biologists have labeled the survival instinct the “fight-flight syndrome” Instinctive center is closely aligned with moving center. Note: fight or flee
To surrender the survival instinct to the Work practice, to “turn the other cheek,” is a very high practice indeed, called in the shamanic traditions “the Warrior’s Maneuver.” This is a rational response to pain or the threat of pain. Instinct is not rational.
But the person of the Work has a choice as to whether I react to the surge of the survival instinct. I have a choice whether I act according to its urgent commandFight or flee! I can choose to find myself, manage my body, observe without reacting, without judgment, without changing anything, and keep the body relaxed when the adrenaline surge is sent down the central nervous system, preparing the body to fight or flee.
So in one family, the default mood may be anger, another depression, another pollyannic happiness, another drug addiction, another abuse, another emotional withdrawal—absence both physical and emotional, abandonment, like that. The list goes on. Emotion is energy in the body, measuring the amount of danger or love. Period. What I do with it depends upon two factors) my received and constructed paradigm (= mental-emotional “construct”)—that is, my conditioning and programming, which becomes a default position; or ) free attention of an awake and conscious person. If I am awake and conscious, then I am able to choose from aim. If I am an ordinary person, driven by unconscious habit, then my “default mechanism,” my habitual mood-choices, will choose for me, the habit will speak for me in my name and using my voice, the habit will act for me, and I will be left to pay the consequences of such (sometimes life-changing) choices, sometimes paying for the rest of my life for a choice made by a mechanical, unconscious, habitual entity in the human biological instrument, which acts without reason or consciousness, only by habit.
You Don’t Know What Love Is On the way to the picnic I stop to buy an apple pie and the big bag of corn chips, my favorites. We get there and drink beer, grill burgers and have a good time. Just to show what a good guy I am, I leave them the rest of the apple pie but I wrap and fold the corn chips carefully and place them next to our cooler so they will come home with us. They are my favorites. The next day I go to the kitchen for corn chips but they are nowhere to be found; I look everywhere and then I go in the laundry room where she is doing the wash and I ask her, Where are the corn chips? I left them there to be nice, she says, and that is how the fight starts. It goes on and on, but it ends the way they always endshe is in tears and when I try to comfort her by saying I love her, she says, You don’t love me; you don’t know what love is. And I am thinking, not out loud of course, That’s a goddamn lie, I love those corn chips. (Red Hawk. Wreckage, ) NOTE: inspiring humor poem
Nothing can remain the same in me once I have seen the fact of my “many i’s” and see how that works in me.
Now real suffering—voluntary suffering—begins in earnest within me“voluntary” because no human being can make me observe myself, no one. There must develop within me what the Work calls “observing-I” which wishes to see. And as it is remembered and utilized by the inner being more, it begins to strengthen and fuse with the inner being; it becomes more and more active through the power of suffering—pain is the great motivator. More and more “i’s” join forces with this “observing-I”, they begin to coalesce and crystallize around it the way particles gather around a charge. And thus, through years of practice, forgetting for hours or days to observe, resisting meditating for fifteen or thirty minutes in the morning, only now and then remembering my Work, this “observing-I” grows stronger and more active.
Slowly, slowly its aim—to see myself as I am—becomes more active, begins to have real strength and force in me.
The suffering produced by the practice actually builds and develops something in me which the Work calls conscience.*
But from “voluntary suffering,” the seed of real conscience may spring.result of very patient and slow and careful observation over many years.
Once that mustard seed is activated, once real conscience is fed and begins to develop, only then will I learn what true voluntary suffering is. Because the “i’s” which I love and identify with (= I am that) will not go away. Just so long as I choose to believe in them and identify with them, they will have power over me.
The mature practitioner simply does not give these “i’s” the authority, to speak for me, to choose for me, to act for me. I give my power to aim instead. I choose to live from aim, not from the agenda of small “i’s”
And I suffer because I see over and over and over and over just how easily I am taken by the agenda of small “i’s”. I see very clearly that I refuse to stop whoring and drinking (an example, not a fact) never mind the cost to myself, my relationships, or my lifeI refuse.
And because there is now in me a mustard seed of conscience—not belief systems borrowed from others, but something which is all my own because I have paid for it—now I suffer most intensely, now I suffer in a whole new way and on a whole new level. And this suffering feeds conscience. This is what the ordinary man can never understand.
Only desperate people, who have suffered “the terror of the situation” for years and years, would be driven to such lengths that they surrendered all that they had to the Creator, in return for this mustard seed, this “pearl of great price.” Do you understand? Do I dare to see how every moment I am making a decision to be ruled by small, selfish, unconscious “i’s” and am a slave to their wishes? Do I dare to see how my life is being stolen from me for chump-change, for drinking and whoring (which means any and all of the small “i’s” agendas)?
Can I see in myself the true “terror of my situation”? Try to observe in yourself the entire cycle of a single “i”—not only the acting out of its agenda, but the resulting judgment about that action, and the feelings about self which resulted as well; that is, the entire “cycle-of-the-i” not just one half, which is the action, but the other half too, which is the reaction and judgment and feeling about myself. Verify for yourself what is true about your inner state. Try to observe yourself without judgment or changing what is observed. When I am able to be aware of an “i” in me and what it is doing, greed and the “i” which is greedy, this is a moment of real self remembering and self observation.
The effort to change what is observed is the result of identification with what is observed, believing in it, giving it power, feeling “helpless” to do otherwise NOTEA very strong impression.
Thus, one part of me, one small ‘i’ in me, judges another small ‘i’ and says that this ‘i’ must be stopped and ‘i’ will stop it. The result? Civil war, a self divided, and the effort to change what is observed merely serves to further empower that which is observed and which “I” am making effort to change. Result? No change, habitual repetition of act—judgment of act—effort to change act—resulting guilt and condemnation when it does not change—further repetition of act. It is a cycle. It repeats. It can be predicted, because it is habitual. All habits are “i’s”.
the effort to change what is observed merely serves to further empower that which is observed and which “I” am making effort to change. Result? No change, habitual repetition of act—judgment of act—effort to change act—resulting guilt and condemnation when it does not change—further repetition of act. It is a cycle. It repeats. It can be predicted, because it is habitual. All habits are “i’s”...NOTE: Trying to change backfiring
The next day several “i’s” with no trust, fear-based and self hating, were eager to exploit the available energy. But I was willing to hold to my aim, so I sat down and began. NOTEConsciously serving the aim or wish or will
Learn to endure momentary displeasures for the sake of the Work. . . . Make friends with the denying force. . . . If we are doubtful as to which course to follow, we should follow the line of most resistance.” (E.J. Gold. The Joy of Sacrifice, , )
As the being attempts to grow and mature, to advance, it will meet with lawful resistance within. It cannot be otherwise. The greater the effort, the greater the inner resistance.
I cannot simply meet resistance head on with an opposing force.Between two opposing forces, I must find a way to reconcile them. A third force must arise in me. Self observation and the accompanying self remembering provide such a reconciling force in me.
They allow me to stand between two opposing forces, between the “yes” and the “no” in me, without identifying with either one.
I am able to move neither toward one nor away from the other. This is known in Buddhist tradition as “equanimity.” That is the ability to hold two opposing positions inside equally without distress or yielding in either direction. This is the essence of the Work.
I am a mass of contradictory “i’s” within, many opposed to one another, each vying for control of the organism in order to accomplish its own selfish aims.
So, don’t be fooled by resistance to Work. It is as inevitable as the shadow which follows the body. It is lawful and necessary. No development may be gained without it. In fact, resistance becomes a very useful guide to signal me when I am on a right path.
The ego will find any self observation reprehensible and resist it with great force. The more one uncovers the workings of various “i’s” the more inner resistance there will be. They depend for their survival upon my remaining unconscious and unaware.
As one advances in this Work and gains greater insight and understanding, resistance does not diminish, it grows accordingly. The greater the inner resistance, the more assuredly I am on a right path and have uncovered something which is true.
Simply observe with equanimity and a relaxed body. When water meets with resistance, it merely passes around, over, or under. It yields in order to continue to move. Martial arts use the same idea, to move with, not against, the force which is coming towards me and to not tense the body but stay relaxed in the face of opposition. Resistance is lawful. Use it, don’t fight it...NOTE: Martial Arts
Without self importance we are invulnerable” (Carlos Castaneda. Tales of Power. New YorkSimon and Schuster, ).
It is how the labyrinth prevents me from hearing and utilizing real help; it is how the labyrinth prevents me from seeing myself as I am, thus preserving intact its mechanism for “capture and consume.” It has a vested interest in me not understanding what is being laid out here, and it knows this information is not in its best interest.
But it is mechanical = habitual, unconscious. You need not be. That is our advantage over it. I can learn to observe the intellectual-emotional-complex at work because it is predictable; it acts the same way every time. And simply by seeing, I can become free, not changing anything except my relationship with the labyrinth. Not changing the labyrinth at all, but my relationship to it = non-identification.
Efforts to keep the body relaxed seem very useful and productive. Such efforts are called in Zen “effortless effort,” because it is not muscular “effort” to relax, but an effort of inner observation, bodily awareness, and understanding.
This is also what is known in certain traditions, such as Zen, as “effortless effort”to become actively-passive inside.
Always in this Work, the great law isPay attention; go slow; be still. There is no need to rush. Work cannot be rushed. It requires great patience, and this patience will develop in me as I observe. What is needed and wanted in me will arise as it is needed; help will come from on High, from that which observes me. I simply have to trust the process as it unfolds in me. Slow is sure and safe. NOTE: Help
Most of us manage to remain functionally insane. But the suffering of this madness is too great for most of us to bear, even with the buffer system, so we self-medicate in order to bear the suffering of our mental illness. Traditionally we use money, sex, power, fame, or drugs to distract us from the pain of our condition and numb us to the reality of our inner state. It is more than any of us can bear. The law of the Work for entering the “Corridor of Madness”* isThe only way out is through. I must pass through my madness. Self observation and self remembering are the ways to safely traverse the Corridor.
Simply find yourself and observe your contradictions without judgment or trying to change things. Eventually, as I mature in this Work, change will arise from what is observed. Only as I mature can change occur, and it will arise as grace from the practice of self observation. I will see what to do and how to do it. I will see when struggle is necessary and what to struggle for. No need to struggle against anything; I will see what to struggle for and that will slowly take the place of what is no longer necessary.
We are so conditioned to believe that when we see a problem we must immediately “fix” it, that one of the most difficult things to do in this Work is to observe without interference, neither judging nor changing what is observed.
But because the human biological instrument is created by a wise, kind, and benevolent intelligence, it comes with a single operating toolself observation. I am a hopeless idiot and yet, even I have learned slowly how to use this tool. You can too. We are made so that anyone not permanently and organically broken and ruined, or clinically insane, can recover their sanity by slow and patient work on self.
There is in every single one of us, even the very worst among us, basic goodness; it is the very nature of the being. We come into this incarnation as humans with it and it resides latent and waiting to emerge from its cover, needing only the organic invitation to emerge.
Inner relaxation is absence of identification, a passively-active non-interference with what is observed.
The only thing which is required of me, my place in the scheme of creation, is that I see and feel my inner state as it is, without judgment or trying to change what is observed.
Seeing comes from intellectual center, and is one of its true and basic functions. In order to self remember, to find myself, place attention on bodily sensation and observe my contradictions without identification, the intellect is required. The intellect remembers and directs the attention, places it and holds it. Seeing is one of its functions and when it does this, it is in its place. It must be trained to know its place. Only then can it serve efficiently. As it is now, it is out of its place, it wastes enormous amounts of energy in unnecessary thinking. It steals the energy which is necessary for self observation in order to maintain its flow of constant chatter and judgment. All that is required of it is that it see without interference. NOTE: Seeing
When attention is placed on seeing my own contradictions, the shock of this will cause me to suffer. This is voluntary suffering and it can be intense. I simply have to stand in it and not distract myself with money, sex, power, fame and drugs. The only way out is through. Feeling this suffering is one of the true functions of emotional center and allows it to learn its proper, lawful place in the bodily scheme of energy transformation. The energy of this suffering from feeling is transformed into a higher and finer energy which can be utilized by the body for self observation. NOTE: The transformed energy through self observation will act as strength for further observation.
From seeing, intention arises in the intellectual center. By itself intention cannot do, but it serves to focus the intellect and awaken its organic intelligence.
From feeling, wish* arises in the emotional center. By itself wish cannot do, but it serves to focus the emotions and awaken what is called “feeling-attention.”
My task is to not interfere, not try to “fix,” not judge. Simple to understand, difficult to accomplish. Much effort is needed to arrive at the “effortless effort”
I must, of my own accord, by my own choice begin to observe myself without judgment. And once I do so, I will begin to suffer in a new way. And it is this suffering in me which will create a new organ within, which is known in this Work as conscience.
Now I am able to take upon myself, voluntarily, some of the suffering of the Creator, to relieve the Creator of some of Its burden. I am able to “pick up my own cross and carry it,” as Matthew : suggests.
To carry your own cross is joy, but not joy as we know it.
When there is pleasure, I become automatic, maintaining the status quo. But when pain enters, I am constructed in such a way that I move away from pain. Suffering motivates me to Work, to make effort, to see more in order to find my way through suffering to pleasure.
I see what I am. I do not pretend to be otherwise.
I pay with voluntary suffering, and am rewarded with grace. It is moment to moment.
Again, only when I am overwhelmed, when I cannot face the situation, can something entirely new appear that helps me to understand what is really needed.
What I call “thinking” is merely the mind’s memory function examining its contents, which is the past stored as memory. And the only aim of memory is to repeat its contents and maintain its patterns. It only has one functionto think. It cannot do anything else. So naturally it seeks to convince me that thinking is the most important thing I can do and that if I don’t think about everything all the time, I will die.
So in order to move outside the box, I must begin to comprehend the universe in a new way, not through the intellectual center’s activity. The intellectual center must become passive, alert, receptive; it must remain in the mode of “I don’t know,” organically ignorant. This is the awakening of intelligence. It sounds contradictory, paradoxicalin order for real intelligence to awaken in me, the intellect must become ignorant. See if you can intuitively understand what this might mean. Faithful self observation over a long period of time will bring me to the state of “I don’t know.” Only then can real intelligence operate. Before then, all that I know, all that is stored in memory as knowledge, blocks the operation of intelligence.
When the mind is quiet and receptive—it cannot be receptive as long as it believes it knows and chatters all the time— then the mode of apprehension of reality outside the box is direct experience; the mode of comprehension outside the box is intuition, and the mode of expression outside the box is inspiration. These are the modes of real intelligence. The right hemisphere is merely the receiver which, when tuned to higher frequencies, receives the input from higher centers. Quiet mind and peaceful heart together, acting as one in harmony, receive wisdom. To do so, what is required of me is “not doing.” That is, there must be a surrender of random, mechanical thought in the intellectual center...
Real intelligence is the awakening of the clear channel between heart/mind and higher centers so that I can receive wisdom. It does not come from me, but is received by me. Wisdom is available to all, but at a pricethe price is the surrender of all that I think I know and the leap into the abyss, into the unknown. This is not logical. Logic has taken me this far and it can go no further. Logic will argue that only it can lead me in the right direction, towards what is logical. This is logical, but not intelligent. If logic could solve the problems of humanity, it would have done so many thousands of years ago.
The intention is to share how I now view all that happened at and through work , in light of the teaching of non - duality . I can clearly see that the conditioning I received during my working years provided a fertile ground on which the seeds of non - duality were planted .
He said something which gave me much strength in those days : ‘ Nobody is indispensable . People come and go . Organisations tend to carry on , no matter who leaves . After all , it did continue even after your father . ’
We were in a dilemma : How would we run the show if he left ? Whom would the clients have faith in now ? After the turbulence in the agency a few months ago , what could we tell them now ? What were we to do ? In this situation , my mother turned to her guru for advice . He told her to leave the problem at his doorstep , and let the Source take care of the rest .
The situation I found myself in at work was a daunting one . I was intimidated and fearful about retaining the business . On top of that , the entire working world around me including my colleagues , suppliers , and clients , were older than me . Some by four decades ! To add to that , I was more of an introvert . My shyness was often misconstrued as snobbishness . Being chubby in my school days had not helped my self - esteem either . I was not comfortable with the slightest amount of attention .
And so , I found myself between a rock and a hard place . I was hardly the young lad brimming with confidence eager to meet the challenges of business as a CEO . Just what I thought I did not need was forced my way . Yet , things gradually tilted in my favour , by the grace of God .
The conditioning at work morphed me into an ‘ ambivert ’ – a cross between an introvert and extrovert . But at heart I was an introvert . In fact , I even won a white card in school for being ‘ the most well - behaved boy in class ’ . That was strange , I thought . All I did was keep quiet , and that too I did not expend any effort in order to keep quiet ; yet I got rewarded . The Lord works in mysterious ways !
She is not a trained artist , and yet the results were quite surprising with their consistency in form . What took shape was a diary with illustrations in colour . She had no intention to get it published , but some friends who were familiar with the subject of Kundalini meditation said that her drawings would be of tremendous value to aspirants on the path .
In both instances , I was the most unlikely of CEOs , yet I was placed there . I was terrible with numbers , yet had to sign balance sheets . I was an introvert , yet had to deal with people all of the time . Sometimes the Divine plan can seem like a comedy of errors . From our limited perspective , of course .
genes . It could only be God’s will that someone who wrote a book on this subject could be so disconnected , separate and fearful of the ‘ other ’ . Yet , my suggestion to someone who read her book and was deeply impacted by it would be the same : why shoot the message ?
He had this concept of the ‘ working mind ’ and ‘ thinking mind ’ , which I found extremely beneficial . The working mind was always engaged in the moment , focusing on the task at hand . An idle mind can truly be a devil’s workshop , which is the ‘ thinking mind ’ that is living in the dead past or projecting into an imaginary future , creating innumerable ‘ what ifs ’ and ‘ what should be’s ’ while totally oblivious to ‘ what is ’ , here and now . The ‘ me ’ is held in abeyance when the working mind is in operation as one is totally engrossed in the task at hand . The thinking mind is the ‘ me ’ , the ego with its sense of separation and doership , and the ‘ me ’ comes to the fore when the thinking mind is in operation .
I can truly see that it really helped that my working mind was engaged through those formative years , else I perhaps could have slipped into some sort of despair as the mind would have had ample time to be incessantly engaged in thinking .
At work , sometimes the same situation tends to repeat itself . This is actually a gift , for one can see if one’s attitude has changed in the same context .
Hence , there was no ‘ sting ’ directed at an individual in a personal manner .
‘ Tolerance ’ does not imply putting up with others , but rather a tolerance for their so - called ‘ flaws ’ , just as we too have our own flaws . The focus shifts onto how to handle the present circumstances without getting mired in blame , condemnation and other mental distractions .
If one is prone to be taken over by the thinking mind incessantly , then yes , getting involved in an activity that deliberately engages the working mind may be a good alternative . In that sense , an idle mind is truly a devil’s workshop . However , at its core , this state of affairs indicates a restless mind , not a mind at peace . A deliberate attempt to engage the mind is in fact a type of involvement itself , and can therefore offer only a short - term solution at best .

we can use them in a different way, which we could call jiu-jitsu yoga , using the habits and h ungers of the machine to overcome the machine ' s will to remain asleep.
The alchemical process is cumul ative . It does not regress , but it may not continue for a hundred-thousand year s . At each complete alchemical process , the p rocess is stabilized . There is no reversal so, once begun, it must b e finished , otherwise we will be forced t o live i n pain; the cup will not pass from u s .
But the main point is that, if we intend to try to awaken the machine , w e must not do anything else at the same time. We must place a pure hermetic seal u pon the t ime we have set aside for this effort . We h ave got to make up our minds that we will tolerate no distraction during this time .
Even with an u ntrained attention , anyone ought to b e abl e to set aside five minutes a day during which nothing else enters to distract or attract the attention-no outside worries , no b u siness con cerns, no anticipation of the day ' s p roblems , no nervous agitatio n , no upsets, no daily problems , no emotional outbursts , n o arguments, no amusements , no entertainment-ju st for five minutes out of a whole day l When we first begi n , we establ ish an exact, very s hort, period of time that we know we can set aside without distraction s . Boil ing the work-time down to a mere five 94 The Human Biological Machine. as a Transformational Apparatus minutes serves to help us extract the essence of a whole day ' s effort .
We m u s t n o t b ite o ff more t h a n we c a n chew or the beachhead will be defe ated. We must not try to do too much at once, if we expect to see results .
We must set aside the same exact time-period every day , t o t h e exact second-then w e know that every d a y w e h ave a certain amount of time to work-and only that short amount of time-during which time we are to try to awaken the machine , thinking of nothing else , doing nothing else, worrying about nothing else .
If the time period is not too long, our whol e , undistracted and unwandering attention should be able to focus on this effort without fail .
but the period for work is s acre d , sacrosanct-inviolable
This works best if we agree with ourselves to hol d this beachhead at the s ame time every day , without fail . We must not lose our foothold on the Fourth Dimension by wan dering away fro m our beachhead even for one d ay , or we are forced to begin again , not at the same point we began , but lower, because we h ave exposed a seriou s weakness.
Because we are concentrating our effort into j u st five minutes, we increase the potency of our effort
dynamo, building the potency for our beachhead in the Dimensio n , generating the force for our attack at daw n
We are accumulating energy for a five minute work period for the following day. We are not to deplete each other ' s work force .
During this time. we will keep a work-diary, a record of combat against the will of the mach in e . This diary is obligatory, and no one is exempt. In the diary we w il l keep notes about what was and was not effective, what we think might h ave worked , and so on.
During Sitting, writie notes; Prior To Full force attack.
During the remainder of the day, when we are not working to awaken the machine. we can study the machine, evaluate the sleep of the machine and see how difficult it would be to extend our beachhead into this enemy territory.
We may observe the machine on a total rampage, and for the first time we may realize that eventually, someday, sooner or l ater, we are expected to awaken the machine during the rampage , every single moment of it.
We can use our time to b egin our evaluation of the sleep of the machine , the l ife of the machine, how much will it e xerts over the situation , how difficult the terrain .
We probably already h ave a good idea of which territorie s , which states, a r e going t o be difficult.
Spend the d ay evaluating the sleep of the machine and evaluating how difficult it would be, by asking yourself specifically, ' Well, how hard wou l d it be to wake the machine up in this sit u ation? What kind of problems is the machine making for me here? '
In a sense, we are gathering military intelligence to expan d our b eachhead with the purpose of eventually extending our invasion.
This is no joke. For five minute s every day we will l iterally hold territory in another dimension , a dimension about which we know absolutely nothing.
The only weapon we really have or need is the gentle erosion of the sleep of the machine under the inexorable pressure of the wind and water of attention .
When we can assure ourselves that we can re-enter the sleeping state whenever we wish , we will be far less reluctant to leave the sleeping state and enter the waking state . If we have the key for reintegration of the sleeping state, we also have the key to achieving the waking state.
In a sense, the intentional disintegration and reintegration of the sleeping state is the key to the waking state . When we are able to freely leave the sleeping state , enter the waking state and then leave the waking state and reenter the sleeping state, the m achine will no longer fear the waking state, and the defense mechanism will slowly disarm itself, almost effortlessly .
The m achine must be able to view the waking state without fear-the fear that it might be trapped in the waking state forever.
We can use the sleeping state to learn to solve the problems of the waking state, and to prepare ourselves to accomplish the Work, which is what we call that which is of real value from the viewpoint of the waking state, hoping to someday enter the permanent waking state.
No Pressure. If you find it very difficult for example, fear of being not so aggresive or standing up for yourself kind of person. Jusy see how dofficult it is for being freed from machin'es hold under such conditions. Don't fight it!
With the key to the sleeping state , we have eliminated the machine' s primary objection to the waking state.
Of course , if the essential self had not b een drawn into the machine , transformation and evolution would be impossible, so although it occurred by accident, we can take it as serendipito u s , a fortunate accident which gives us an opportunity we would not have had otherwise.
It isn ' t possible to enter the Work without a machine which has been transformed, and at the same time, preparation for the Work provides the necessity for transformation and places us in a situation in which transformation is an inevitable necessity .
Our first taste of real freedom can easily seduce us away from the concept of divine slavery, by which I mean an intentional working partnership with the machine.
This is the gap that gives us back our autonomy and peace of mind – without it there can be no possibility of either! Cognitive restructuring is no good to us because every time we use thinking we ‘close the gap’, obviously! The only thing that brings about this gap, this life-giving discontinuity between consciousness and thought, is paying attention. Not ‘paying attention with a view to fixing anything’ (which would mean that our ‘noticing’ is serving the master of the rational mind) but ‘noticing for no reason’, or as we could also put it – simply being aware. Actually, simply being aware (or ‘noticing without an agenda’) is the very same thing as the space between stimulus and response that Viktor Frankl is talking about. That space is consciousness.
Attraction to a school does not occur b y interest, information or accident, but by electrical affinity . Without affinity for a school, one cannot possibly enter a school .
That i s your absolute key that you are n e ar the waking state . If you can recognize your chronic when it is happening, not try to defend against it , not try to get rid of it, not try to flush it down the toilet, not look at it as somethi ng negative but realize that that is your key to the waking stat e , then you are getting somewhere .
We must remember that when our chronic is most powerful then we are at our closest point to the waking state , and when it is less powerful then we are further away. It is almost unnoticeable when we are very far away
We must search out the s ituations which most activate the chronic . These are the situations we should be in most of the time , as much as we can tolerate it without making ourselves sick.
If you try to repress the feelings because you d on ' t want to act them out or you don' t feel that they are right, or you think that there is something wrong with being fearful or angry or fru strated or whatever your chronic h appens to be, if you don' t stop it from going on its course, it can take you to the point where you can cross over.
If you start intervening with your intellectualism , if you do anything other than observe it and allow it to be without acting it out, then you lose the opportunity that it affords.
It i s j ust a m atter of realizing that your chronic has been activated and allowing it to take you . Like a guide , it w ill take you by the h an d and lead you to the waking state.
You want to wallow in the chronic without manifesting the chronic, although if you manifest a littl e b it that i s fine. Not much though . And l et it grab you by the hand. Let it take you to the promised l and . The thing you h ate most is your guide .
In a conversation I had with a lady who had been a spiritual seeker for many years , this predicament was brought to the fore . She mentioned that she no longer had any need to work since she was now financially secure , so she had developed about 15 passions that kept her busy during the day . These were hobbies like painting , listening to music , studying the Bhagavad Gita , etc . With tears in her eyes she said that while this helped her pass the time , she was still not at peace and felt something was ‘ missing ’ . It is clear from this example that true peace resides elsewhere , and not in keeping one’s working mind occupied through 15 or even 150 passions .
The awareness dawns that there is a state of being apart from that of an engaged mind . And that state of being is ‘ witnessing ’ .
Upon some reflection , one sees that keeping the mind constantly engaged is a subtle ploy to camouflage the greatest fear of all – the fear of death . It is akin to wrapping a cloak around the fear of death , for a purposefully engaged mind is a mind that is afraid to die . It is constantly finding ways and means to dodge the question that must inevitably come up sooner or later : Who am I if I am not my mind ? What would happen to ‘ me ’ if I was not engaged in some mental activity or another ?
Intentionally keeping the mind engaged all the time is just a means of avoiding these burning questions . But once this is deeply recognised , the inquiry goes within and sincere seeking begins . It is now no longer an external engagement ; this time around , it is an internal one . The arrow from the crossbow has been shot within , straight to the heart of the matter .
Seen in another light , the total acceptance of God’s will is the total annihilation of ‘ my ’ will . The total annihilation of ‘ my ’ will is the total annihilation of ‘ me ’ . The total annihilation of ‘ me ’ ( ‘ I am Gautam ’ ) is the total presence of ‘ I am ’ . The total presence of ‘ I am ’ is the blinding light of witnessing .
Thinking can’t solve the problem of my life because thinking is the problem. But it does expose the problem. The mind is active because it has been asked to do the impossiblebe the master and be in control. Impossible task. Thus it sits behind the curtains of Oz and operates a smoke screen of continuous thought which creates the illusion that I am in control of my life and of reality. I can go about my life as an habitual, mechanical, unconscious, sleeping walking-around robot, a proper mammal who fits into the herd, some herd, somewhere. I can continue to do the same things in the same way and not have to think for myself.
We really do not recognize the fact that we have no choice. We are totally enslaved by the neurotic mindevery breath, every word out of our mouths, every gesture. We couldn’t be free if our lives, if our children’s lives, depended upon it. We could not. We have no options—we can’t be free. We can’t make the conscious choice. We can’t make a free gesture. When we get that, the horror and disgust is so overwhelming that we will be forced to choose the Work mind.
We’re forced to see how absolutely, completely choiceless we are when we are dominated by our psychology, and the shock of that is what propels us into choosing the Work mind . . . (Lee Lozowick. InYoung, As It Is, )
And the contrast between what is true and what I am being told by the intellectual-emotional-complex and manifesting in my daily behavior is the source of real suffering.
Direct experience becomes my teacher, not the accumulation of belief systems, borrowed knowledge, and the experience of others which are stored in the memory as the self, which I believe in, and which I have given my life to without question.
You may want to say to the little one inside you , the past is not our home ; our home is here , where we can really live our life . We can get all the nourishment and healing we need here in the present moment . Much of the fear , anxiety , and anguish that we experience is there because the inner child has not been liberated . That child is afraid to come out to the present moment , and so your mindfulness , your breath , can help this child to realize that she is safe and can be free .
When your baby suffers and cries , you don’t want to punish him or her , because your baby is you . Your fear and anger are like your baby . Don’t imagine that you can just throw them out the window . Don’t be violent toward your anger , your fear , and your worries . The practice is simply to recognize them . Continue to practice mindful breathing and mindful walking ; then , with the energy generated by your practice , you can recognize intense feelings , smile to them , and embrace them tenderly .
A baby may not be pleasant when she cries and kicks , but her mother picks her up tenderly and holds her in her arms , and the mother’s tenderness penetrates the baby . After a few minutes , the baby feels better and may stop crying .
It’s the energy of mindfulness that empowers you to recognize your pain and sorrow and embrace them tenderly . You feel some relief , and your baby is quiet . Now you can enjoy the beautiful sunrise and allow yourself to be nourished by the wonders of life around you as well as inside you .
With practice , you can release the tension and reduce the pain in your body , and you can recognize painful feelings inside , know how to embrace them , and release the tension in your feelings , bringing relief . You can create a feeling of joy and happiness whenever you want .
With good practice , you will no longer be afraid of obstacles and difficulties . You will know how to cope with the difficulties that arise . With practice that is solid , there is no reason to be fearful anymore , because you have seen the path . When you know how to handle your body , your feelings , your perceptions , there is no need to worry anymore .
You will not allow your habit energy to carry you away in compulsively thinking of something in the past or the future , of this or that project . You train yourself to stop , to relax and be at peace .
It’s like soaking mung beans in water . You don’t need to force the water to enter the mung bean . You let the mung bean be in the water , and slowly , slowly it goes in . Gradually the mung bean gets saturated , swollen and tender . The same is true for you . Letting go , the tension will be released slowly , slowly , slowly . And you will become more relaxed and more peaceful . The training is to just keep bringing your mind back to the present moment with your body .
Even if what we’re watching isn’t satisfying , we often don’t have the courage to turn off the TV . Why ? Because although it’s uninteresting or even disturbing , we think it’s better than going home to ourselves and touching the pain within .
Same with thoughts--thoughting
Many of us have benefited greatly from the collective energy of the sangha . If you see that the sangha is precious and crucial for your practice , try your best to get a group of people to practice with you , and everyone will benefit . That is your lifeboat .
Descartes said , “ I think , therefore I am ” ; but most of the time , the truth is more like “ I think , therefore I am not really here . ”
To be present in the here and now , breathing , is a miracle . To be alive is one of the greatest of miracles . Parents holding their newborn child know this ; people on their deathbeds know it too . To be alive , breathing , taking steps on this planet , is a wonderful thing . We don’t need to drink some wine or host a dinner party to celebrate life ; we can celebrate in every moment with our breathing and our steps . With mindfulness and concentration , we can get in touch and live every moment of our daily lives as a miracle . And we can do it right now , today .
The energy of mindfulness can be generated anytime , anywhere .
If you’re capable of producing a feeling of joy , a feeling of happiness , then you’ll also be able to handle painful feelings . A person who doesn’t practice doesn’t know how to deal with painful feelings or strong emotions .
When a painful feeling comes , we do the same thing . We don’t need to grab onto , fight , or repress the unpleasant feeling . We simply recognize its presence . We stay free , even when we have a painful feeling . A feeling is just a feeling . And you are much more than that feeling . We shouldn’t let ourselves be carried away by a feeling , even a pleasant one , much less an unpleasant
Every time a painful feeling or emotion comes up , the practitioner should know how to handle that feeling . The method the Buddha proposed is to get in touch with the seed of mindfulness in us .
There’s the energy of the pain , and there’s also the energy of mindfulness and concentration .
The energy of mindfulness will penetrate , like heat waves or sunlight . In the earliest hours of the morning , a lotus flower is still closed . As the sun comes up , the sunlight begins to touch the petals . The sunlight doesn’t just surround the lotus flower ; its photons actually penetrate the lotus flower with energy , and soon the flower will open .
Metta means loving kindness . We begin this with an aspiration , such as : “ May I be free from fear . ” We look deeply , with all our being , to understand ourselves . Then we can begin to wish others well : “ May he / she be free from fear . May they be free from fear . ” We don’t just repeat the words , or imitate others , or strive after some ideal . We don’t just say like a parrot , “ I love myself . I love all beings . ” We have to put our heart into it !
We see how our fears contribute to our unhappiness , and we see the value of loving ourselves and cultivating a heart of compassion .
The sitting position is a wonderful position for practicing this . Sitting still , you are not too preoccupied with other matters , so you can look deeply at yourself as you are , cultivate your love for yourself , and determine the best ways to express this love in the world .
May she be free from anger , afflictions , fear , and anxiety . May he be free from anger , afflictions , fear , and anxiety . May they be free from anger , afflictions , fear , and anxiety . When offering this aspiration , try it first on someone you like , then on someone neutral
to you , then on someone you love , and finally on someone the mere thought of whom makes you suffer .
I am determined not to engage in sexual relations without true love and a deep , long - term commitment established in the presence of family and friends . I will do everything in my power to protect children from sexual abuse and to prevent couples and families from being harmed by sexual misconduct . Seeing that body and mind are one , I am committed to learning appropriate ways to take care of my sexual energy and to cultivate kindness , compassion , joy , patience , inclusiveness , and all elements of true love for my greater happiness and the greater happiness of others .
Aware of the suffering caused by unmindful consumption , I am committed to cultivating good health , both physical and mental , for myself , my family , and my society by practicing mindful eating , drinking , and consuming . I will practice looking deeply into how I consume . I will be aware of what I eat , what I consume through my senses , and what intentions and mental states I cultivate in my consciousness . I am determined not to gamble or to indulge in alcohol , drugs , or any other products that contain toxins , including harmful websites , electronic games , TV programs , films , magazines , books , and conversations . I will practice coming back to the present moment to be in touch with the refreshing , healing , and nourishing elements in me and around me , neither letting regrets and sorrow drag me back into the past nor letting
anxieties , fear , or craving distract me from the present moment . I am determined not to try to cover up loneliness , anxiety , or other suffering by losing myself in consumption . I will contemplate interbeing and consume in a way that preserves peace , joy , and well - being in my body and consciousness , and in the collective body and consciousness of my family , my society , and the earth .
Thich Nhat Hanh offers a fresh perspective on taking care of our anger as we would take care of a baby crying – picking it up , talking quietly to it , probing for what is making the baby cry .
Such ideas , accumulations from the past , appear without being asked . If we intervene or control them , this only prolongs them . The person wishing to control is of the same nature as the object he wants to control .
When we seek we have a goal , we are seeking a result . This goal is based on the already known . It thus prevents us from being completely open to the unknown , to the completely new .
We cannot possibly understand the greater by the lesser . Fractions cause insecurity , suffering and a lack of plenitude . However , this feeling of lack originates in the forefeeling of plenitude and is intuitively conscious of it .
Expectation , anticipation , destroy openness .
It is only through living self - knowledge that our energy and possibilities are harmoniously orchestrated . Otherwise there is dispersion and living in the becoming process , end - gaining and ambition . An ambitious mind can never be a free mind .
All intentions aim at finding pleasure and security and escaping from a projected suffering . Many books have been written and many techniques proposed on how to escape from dis - ease , discomfort , but these proposals take for a fact what is fiction . To come out of the endless round of the pleasure - pain structure we must learn to face the fact , the perception , and not deal with the concept .
Cricket Practice Too
In other words , if you simply give in to your body - mind’s tendencies unconsciously , they will get recorded in the physiology , further strengthen the unconscious behavior patterns , and continue to recycle perhaps for many years or even decades in relation to a self that isn’t actually there ( perhaps a “ spiritual self ” that’s “ beyond it all ” ) . Such is the mechanism of addiction and the calcification of identity . The point is to allow them without avoiding , indulging , or interpreting them — in which case they are arising in the awakened state .
Don’t forget to soften , soften , soften . When you meet people who are unkind , remember that they are suffering and that their conditioned behavior is impersonal just like the weather . If you come in contact with an angry person , for instance , try to remember something the Buddha said : “ You will not be punished for your anger ; you will be punished by your anger . ” People who are unkind or angry are already in a hell state . Have compassion for them instead of contempt .
Have compassion for yourself , too , when you inevitably make relative mistakes or find yourself acting or reacting in unskillful ways . As treating yourself well becomes your new default mode , you will find yourself treating the world in general with the same care , respect , and dignity . In fact , rather than producing apathy , the liberation of the false paradoxically improves the world situation since you are not apart from the collective .
I’m not saying that pain is intellectually produced. Pain is not just an idea. It is the very thing that hurts! That, the very experience that we call a painful feeling, is conceptually produced. It is not a thought—although we can generate pain through what we think. It is a specific form of interpretation. This is what makes something painful. The thing to get is that the very hurtful experience that we call pain is what I’m asserting is a product of the mind. 23:69 When it comes to emotional pain, we can readily recognize that the pain in our heart is conceptually produced, but what about physical pain? We seem hard-pressed to grasp that physical pain is conceptual. This is because we don’t distinguish the experience of pain from the sensation provided by the nerve tissue acting as pain receptors. The sensation produced by the nervous system is only the circumstance or opportunity for physical pain. Pain as an experience is actually an interpretation created by the mind—we confronted this fact when imagining a bear chomping on our bodies in Chapter Twenty. Pain-interpretation can be applied to all sorts of input—physical or emotional—and wherever it is applied, pain is perceived. 23:70 Pain doesn’t exist in and of itself. It is created. Perhaps we can measure the nerve activity that is likely to be interpreted as physical pain, or note circumstances that are likely to be perceived as emotionally painful, but these don’t actually cause pain. It depends on the interpretation given to whatever is perceived, the meaning that is added conceptually to whatever is objectively or subjectively there. If the conceptual activity that creates pain is not applied, no pain will exist. 23:71 Sounds fantastic, doesn’t it? Pain is a concept? Ridiculous. Still, it’s true. In order to get this, we must acknowledge that such a concept is not a mere thought or intellectual musing. It is reflexive and automatic for the most part—and it hurts! That very feeling of pain is itself a concept. Stop generating the concept and no pain will be there. A physical sensation might be there, but this is objective. 
A circumstance might be there, and this too is objective. Neither of these is necessarily painful. Without the ingredient that perceives such conditions as painful, there is no pain. 23:72 Understanding this is grasping the essence of pain, what pain is. This brings us a lot closer to grasping the nature of emotion and of experience (which we will look into more in the next chapter). If we ask, “What are the components that make up pain?” we find that there aren’t any components, which is why pain is more like an atom than a molecule. So we might ask: what kind of distinctions can we make within pain? We can make all sorts of distinctions in types of pain and degrees of pain and so forth, but the very distinction of pain itself is simply the distinction “pain.” 23:73 No matter how many times I assert that pain is a concept, the idea is likely to continue to be resisted and misunderstood. Looking directly into the nature of pain isn’t easy since we have no conventional consciousness about it; we simply take it at face value. It’s true that when we’re in pain, it doesn’t look at all like a thought. It is painful. That is the distinction “pain.” And that distinction hurts! This is what pain “is.” We can’t say that it’s an object, but we could argue that it can be objectively produced through the nervous system. Yet, as we’ve seen, we don’t find pain there. We find an activity to which we apply the “stuff” we call pain. We can in fact have that activity without the pain—we can feel the sensation of nerve stimulation without having it be painful. 23:74 If something does not exist in the objective domain, what domain does that leave us? The most likely candidate is concept. Of course pain is a distinction, but so is everything else (even objects, but that’s another chapter). Pain is produced by the mind. It is not an intellectual notion, but its nature is conceptual, which covers a much broader scope than people realize. If we’re going to consider pain as conceptual, mind would have to cover a pretty broad scope, wouldn’t it? Pain and Now 23:75 We know that a memory of the past and an image of the future both acquire their existence through concept—as mental constructs of something that is not so in this moment. They must be conceptual because such experience is not of the present, and so does not exist as something that “is” but only as a representation of something that is not. But pain seems to occur in this moment, so let’s look more closely at what we experience as “pain in this moment.” 23:76 When we recall pain that has just passed and also fear pain that is to come, we greatly increase the level of pain in our current experience. While pain itself does not consist of divisible components, we can see how memory and fear are superimposed on top of what would otherwise be simply this moment of pain. In fact, a great deal of what we know as pain is this amplification that we ourselves create through concepts regarding past experience and future possibilities. Since the conceptual amplification exists in a domain other than this moment of pain, eliminating past and future considerations may not eliminate the pain, but it will reduce it a great deal. 23:77 Beyond reducing the pain we create by dwelling on past and future, it’s also possible to eliminate the distinction of pain altogether. Since pain occurs as a process—granted a very, very quick one—we may be able to interrupt that process. I can say from personal experience that, because I recognize pain for what it is, I can also make the pain disappear. It’s not that I suddenly become ignorant about the distinction pain, or that I suppress it. Anyone who’s willing to recognize and fully experience the true nature of pain will realize that it is without substance. It’s unnecessary—it doesn’t need to exist. Another way to say that is we can locate the activity of creating pain and simply stop creating it. 23:78 I have tested this no-pain distinction at the dentist by refusing novocaine. As he drilled, sometimes right into a nerve, I would be completely sensitive to the sensations, and yet they were not painful as long as I refused to add to them the activity of pain. 
This takes some understanding of what pain is and is not, but I can honestly say that it was not a painful experience. Be clear that it is not a matter of ignoring the pain, or pretending it isn’t there, or calling it “sensation” rather than pain. There was no pain! Were I to make the distinction of pain, it would hurt. Since I did not, it didn’t hurt. 23:79 Once I had a crown put onto a pretty badly damaged tooth. I was told it was going to take at least an hour to grind down the tooth and shape it for the crown. The dentist also needed to drill a hole into the middle of the tooth and insert a pin to add strength. I admit I found myself a bit nervous while I was imagining the future possibility of an unwanted experience. I’d never done this for such a long time; I wondered if I might get distracted or be unable to focus for so long. Still, I went forward and declined novocaine. 23:80 What I found was that not only was I able to experience the whole procedure without pain, I had the opportunity to play around a bit. 
As I sat there (not much else to do in the dentist’s chair) I noticed that I felt I had to remain serious and control my mind. It occurred to me to ask myself: why? If I can keep myself from creating pain, why do I have to be serious and controlling about it? I can also stop creating the distinctions “serious” or “controlling.” So I dropped that disposition, relaxed, and began flirting with the nurse. (This is hard to do with your mouth full of fist.) Still no pain. 23:81 I tell this story to help demonstrate what I’m talking about and also to reveal that it is not a matter of “suppression.” It is simply not creating pain. Granted, a degree of sensitivity and direct experience is necessary to realize what pain is—or, for that matter, the true nature of any distinction—but freedom from pain is simply the ability to stop making a distinction that is usually made automatically. 23:82 One might think then that I go around in a painless state. Not so. I have easy access to pain just like everyone else. The programmed function of pain is active, and it pushes and pulls my body into paths beneficial (hopefully) to its well-being. Yet, the distinction of pain is recognized for what it is—an activity and impulse the purpose of which is to govern action so as to be consistent with personal survival—and so my relationship to pain is transformed, and I don’t take it so seriously. Pain may be “so,” but it’s not “true.” 23:83 An analogy might help clarify my unusual use of the word true above. If we saw something as an illusion or hallucination, we would still see and relate to it, but we would relate to it differently than we would if we saw it as objectively real. If we felt something and thought it was a spider crawling up our leg, we’d relate to it differently than if we knew it was simply some grass brushing our skin. And yet the sensation could be identical in both cases. When we see something as harmless or insubstantial, we’re likely to take it far less seriously. 
Even if we continue to have certain domains of pain, understanding that we don’t need to have any of them lessens the impact of the pain. It makes a difference to know that any pain can be eliminated simply by not creating it. 23:84 There are many painful experiences and reactions that simply need not exist and serve no useful purpose, except for the survival of a conceptual-self. We can do away with those. There are many opportunities to eliminate the distinction of pain—as well as other distinctions, including many assumptions and beliefs. We can free ourselves from much suffering that we thought unavoidable, and at the same time get closer to a sense of real-being. I invite you to look into it for yourself to see whether it does indeed work that way. 23:85 In this chapter, we’ve made some new distinctions in our experience of the feeling states that drive us. Most of the distinctions came about by becoming aware of the components that make up fear, anger, and desire. This allows us to recognize some things about our feeling-reactions that we didn’t see before, which in turn makes it possible for us to experience emotion in a new way. 
In previous chapters we looked at pain in the context of “suffering,” which told us something about the purpose of pain. Now we see that the nature of pain is another matter. 23:86 Our look at pain indicates a direction for discovering the true nature of experience. If we can recognize pain in such a way that it is seen as created and otherwise nonexistent, then we are on top of getting the nature of what we experience as reality itself. The main reason I used pain as a subject here is that it is so undeniable, so primary, and so respected as a real experience that it is just beyond belief that it could actually be insubstantial. Experiencing pain as a created activity of mind is truly a solid insight. And there is even more to get. In the next chapter we will turn our attention more thoroughly onto the essential nature of all experience. Ralston, Peter. The Book of Not Knowing (pp. 515-522). North Atlantic Books. Kindle Edition.
Intuitive vision becomes stronger as you process and heal your personal pain . As you tend to your painful emotions , circumstances that once would have seemed impossibly difficult provide surprising new directions for growth .
The pleasure of thinking is so seductive , it will keep you addicted to novelty . So , in order to see your life with clear vision , you will need to get through your fear of feeling bored .
You might be keeping your mind preoccupied with anticipating what will happen next in the outside world , so you do not have to deal with what feels emotionally uncomfortable inside .
Yet , when you choose to see what is freshly unfolding internally and externally , you will never be bored . Tending to each emerging moment , you can intuit what to do next to heal and grow .
Spiritual teacher Chuck Spezzano explains anger : " It is an attempt to force others to act how we want them to act , to meet our needs , by doing it our way . "
In adulthood , you can heal your emotional pain by giving . What is lacking from others directly correlates with what is lacking in your giving . Paradoxically , to be happy you must give yourself and others what you most emotionally need .
" I can escape from the world I see by giving up attack thoughts . "
Every attack thought contains both the thoughts of being attacked and then your resulting anger about the attack .
Fear of attack stems from unconscious self - diminishment . You can give up attack thoughts by looking within to see how you attack yourself .
Blaming someone else for your internal discomfort is a way to temporarily get the painful emotions out of your body . However , the fear of being attacked , and the need to counter - attack will diminish when you care deeply for your upset emotions .
" I do not perceive my own best interests . "
No Unified Outcome : You have no unified outcome in mind because you likely have many unhealed parts in your personality structure . Your personality parts are in competition to get their needs met .
It is important to understand that you can still set goals . You can voice your personal preferences , but you must also humbly admit , " I do not know if this is best for me . " Even as you proclaim your highest aspirations , you must also make room for something even better to come into your life .
Close your eyes and pick a situation that has been concerning you , that has been on your mind . First name the situation : " I am concerned about ( complete the sentence ) . ” Then go over each potential outcome ( ideally , about five or six ) that you have been afraid might happen . For each one say , " I am afraid . . . will happen . " Then say to yourself , " This thought is an attack upon myself . " What is attacking you is your fearful imaginary outcome .
When you project angry thoughts you will automatically fear a counterattack .
If you watch your mind deeply enough , you will see that you always attack yourself first , and then dissociate away from your self - judgment by projecting a similar judgment onto someone else .
The minute that you judge another , you will fear being judged right back , and you will become defensive . Because your defensive thoughts create fear , you will attract a negative feedback loop from the outside world . In contrast , your loving thoughts invite more love from others .
To see through your soul's eyes means letting go of your cherished ego illusions about what you hope will save you from your unhealed emotional pain . As you process the emotions that stand in the way of clear seeing , your authentic life awaits .
There are two forms of upset to watch out for , each requiring a slightly different form of practice . If you are upset about a specific situation , apply the idea specifically : " I could see peace in this situation instead of what I now see in it . " If your upset is not attached to anything in particular but consists of a general mood of depression or worry , simply repeat the idea . If needed , take several minutes , and repeat the idea until you feel a sense of relief . It may help if you add , " I can replace my feelings of depression , anxiety or worry . . . or my thoughts about this situation . . . with peace . "
" I could choose peace instead of this " provides a stop - gap in your habitual emotional reactivity and soothes upsetting situations . Choosing peace in the midst of a conflict also encourages the other person to see their own upset more clearly .
To have peace , you can choose to be a soothing presence in an upsetting situation . You do not always need to assert your point of view with someone whose ego is inflamed with emotional pain . By not adding fuel to the fire , outer conflicts are often resolved much more quickly .
" My mind is part of Creator's . I am very holy . "
Say , " I see myself as failing , helpless , kind , etc . " After each one , add : " But my mind is part of Creator's . I am very holy . "
When you become emotionally triggered by other people , you can look within to see how you feel unsure about how to provide love and safety for yourself .
It is exceedingly common to demand that other people provide you with the love , approval , security and survival that you have longed for since childhood .﻿ Yet , as you find the roots and reasons for your emotional wounds , you will develop the capacity to provide for yourself . When you no longer require other people to give you what you can now give to yourself , holiness will envelop everything you see .
You are not here to make ego demands upon life . You are here to heal your emotional wounds so that you can contribute to life .
When you clean up your internal house , taking responsibility for caring for your own needs , you will bless life instead of complain about it .
" We release one another by perceiving each other through our own holiness , creating a resonance within them as their own holy nature , long suppressed , responds to our perception of them . "
Unloving thoughts keep you in hell because they always produce guilt . And , guilt feels like hell .
With each unkind thought say , " My unloving thoughts about . . . are keeping me in hell . My holiness ( my oneness with . . . ) is my salvation . "
When you do not love yourself well , you will not treat others well either . Your disconnection from Self - Love incites unloving actions that accumulate guilt , and guilt serves no useful function .
Your harsh judgments ( of self and others ) creates guilt .
The Course teaches that all guilt is insane and there is no reason for it . When you love , accept and forgive yourself completely , you will know how to be in right relationship with other people .
If you understood the extent that you accumulate guilt through the lack of Self - Love , you would have no need for the Course . Loving all of yourself and others heals emotional and physical pain .
Choose qualities that resonate with you . For example : " I am blessed . I am happy , peaceful , loved , supported and content . "
As your unlearned lessons overwhelm your mind , they become displaced onto the body in the form of tension and discomfort . Accumulated emotional pain , left unexamined , translates into chronic physical pain , which over time can become a serious illness .
The ego is made of guilt and fear it can be relinquished . The Course says , " Let us resolve today to ask for what we really want , and only this , that we may spend this day in fearlessness , without confusing pain with joy , or fear with love . "
Feeling unloved , your ego helps you to split away from emotional pain . When you repress your pain it will frighten and disturb you , and so you will project the cause of your distress onto other people .
Yet , no matter how many mistakes you have made from pain , you can forgive and change your destructive behaviours . When you know in your heart that you are good , your soul’s intuition will guide you how , when and where to place your Love in kind , constructive and creative ways .
The Course says that calls for help come in a myriad of ways . " It does not matter how they come . They will be sent in whatever form is most helpful : a name , a thought , a picture , an idea or perhaps just a feeling of reaching out to someone somewhere . "
Fear is anticipatory . When you have not healed from your past through the forgiveness of yourself and others you will fearfully anticipate getting hurt , rejected or betrayed again . You will anxiously hold yourself apart from others . And , you will emotionally suffer .
Psychologist Robert Holden explains : “ Freud taught that separation is the root cause of suffering . All our fears , our unworthiness , our aloneness - the entire A - Z of misery is caused by our anxious apartness . This separation happens in the mind . It's like a lucid dream . In the dream , we make a separate ego - self . " Your ego - self is the defensive person that you have learned to be , not who you really are . Because you have learned to reject your own goodness , you cut yourself off from the nourishment of self - love . Robert Holden reminds : " Self - love is a commitment that says , ' I will not forget who I am . "
Feeling unloved , your ego helps you to split away from emotional pain . When you repress your pain it will frighten and disturb you , and so you will project the cause of your distress onto other people . Disenfranchised , the split off - parts of your mind have separative identities that express anger , hate , mistrust and cruelty . Out of alignment with Love , your splintered ego miscreates from guilt , shame , fear , spite and revenge .
Yet , no matter how many mistakes you have made from pain , you can forgive and change your destructive behaviours . When you know in your heart that you are good , your soul’s intuition will guide you how , when and where to place your Love in kind , constructive and creative ways .
The Course says that calls for help come in a myriad of ways . " It does not matter how they come . They will be sent in whatever form is most helpful : a name , a thought , a picture , an idea or perhaps just a feeling of reaching out to someone somewhere . "
As you heal guilt and shame you will rediscover your soul's singularity . Spiritual teacher Guy Finley shares , " It is written in us to be and express our individuality as surely as each petal on a rose unfolds unlike any other . " The ego , built on guilt , strongly believes in protecting its emotional wounds . Closed down , the ego fearfully " enthrones " itself apart from the wholeness of life .
Yet , as fearful as you might feel , you will feel crushing guilt when you do not give your soul's gifts to life . The " thought disorder " of guilt is healed when you uplift life through your unique giftedness . Spiritual teacher Maureen Ross writes , " Never be afraid to reveal who you really are , regardless of what anyone thinks . As a magnificent force of light , your purest Self is needed in a world shadowed with illusion . "
Miracles always involve interpersonal action by helping another save time in their personal development . The Course says , " Listen , learn and do : Listen to my voice , learn to undo error , and do something to correct it . "
Only your mind needs a Miracle . Miracles represent freedom from the error of guilt , shame and fear . Your soul never loses communion with Love . Miracles restore your mind back to wholeness
If you are not seeing a luminous and loving world , you are looking at life on the level of fear , and forgiveness will feel near impossible . Forgiveness involves letting other people be as they are without judgment . When you condemn people , believing that ego cruelty is their ultimate and only truth , you become a part of their hatred , harm and selfishness .
It is possible to function with love in the world without becoming an active part of another's ego darkness . While on one level you will need to say a firm , " no " to fear - driven mistreatment , unkindness , cruelty or destruction , on another level you can join with everyone you meet with the silent intention to heal within .
Spiritual teacher Miranda Holden offers a beautiful way to inwardly join with people when it feels difficult to communicate face - to - face . My adaptations are below : 1 . Choose Someone to Forgive : See someone you are unable to relate with person - to - person in your imagination with whom you would like to make a deeper connection , experience some kind of healing , or breakthrough into forgiveness . 2 . Look for the Light : See this person's face and feel their presence . Brush past the difficult personality traits , behaviours and your history together . Notice your fears of deeper contact and search for the light in his or her heart . Trust that although this light may be shrouded , it is there . Be willing to reach for the highest light within this person . 3 . Build a Bridge of Grace : Once you can see this seed of light in the midst of the darkness , reach out from your heart to the light in his or her heart and walk towards it . Allow this light to draw you towards the highest within this person you want to forgive . Imagine that the light within both of your hearts is forming a bridge of grace . 4 . Find the Emotional Need : With your heart wide open , compassionately sense into this person's darkness . Ask , " What is your primary emotional need ? " Allow your intuition to show you a hidden emotional need within this person . 5 . Find the Antidote : Next , ask your intuition to communicate the antidote to his or her emotional pain . It might be respect , love , appreciation or acceptance , for example . Pour this antidotal feeling of fulfillment into the person you want to forgive . Pour this emotional remedy directly into his or her heart . 6 . Give to the Emotional Need : Through your imagination , give this person what he or she emotionally needs . Know that what you give to another , you also give to yourself . As you both feel emotionally fulfilled on an imaginal level , speak out the contents of your heart . 7 . Celebrate the Spiritual Relationship : Let all fears between you drop away . When you forgive someone who has harmed you , your authentic self emerges along with a feeling of emotional relief . Enjoy the truth of your spiritual relationship with this person , even if it is not a reality on a personality level .
Focusing psychotherapy teacher Peter A . Campbell encourages us to discover our personal " affection teachers " through remembered moments of affection from a parent , grandparent , animal , teacher , friend or nature . He writes , " Your body already knows how to bring a caring presence to whatever inside you cries out to be heard . The new habit in your body that you all need to learn , and hardly anyone knows how to help you do this , is to develop a habit of noticing and nurturing your body's important feelings . " As you touch into the energy of your " affection teachers " you can remember how to hold your deepest emotions with an inner affection that requires no sacrificial " outer - proving " that you are worthy of love .
The Course says , " To have all is to give all . " Everything that comes from Love is a Miracle . Listening to your intuition , you will know how , when and where to express Love .
Miracles always involve interpersonal action by helping another save time in their personal development . The Course says , " Listen , learn and do : Listen to my voice , learn to undo error , and do something to correct it . "
Only your mind needs a Miracle . Miracles represent freedom from the error of guilt , shame and fear . Your soul never loses communion with Love . Miracles restore your mind back to wholeness
The Player switches from " giving its power away " to make a hologram real , to " taking its power back " from it . When holograms appear that cause any kind of discomfort , it is an indication that the Player assigned some power to that hologram to make it real while playing in the first half , and this is the opportunity to recognize the hologram was in fact not real at all and reclaim that power from it .
All you have to do is become fully conscious and aware of your reactions and responses to your experiences on a moment - to - moment basis , and be willing to look at them in the present time honestly and without justification . This means you have to stay awake with your eyes open , and not in some meditative sleep or altered state of consciousness .
There’s no question there’s only one place to end up – as a butterfly . But there may be as many ways to emerge from the cocoon as there are routes across the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific Ocean . It might be helpful to look at a couple methods used by other scouts to give you a clue about where and how to find what works for you .
Whenever we feel one of these emotions , or physical pain , the first thing we do is judge it to be “ wrong ” or “ bad ” or “ undesirable ” – something we don’t want to feel . Then we resist it . Then we assign power “ out there ” to the person , place , or thing that made us feel less than totally joyful . “ He , ” “ she ” , or “ it ” caused me to feel this way , whether it’s an emotional upset or an upset stomach . In other words , we “ blame ” whatever is “ out there ” that “ did this to me . ” Then we try to change , fix , or improve that situation somehow .
Whenever we would meet something “ out there ” that made us uncomfortable – pain and suffering , for example – we would try to get away from it , resist it , suppress it , change it , ignore it , drug it , deny it , hide from it , escape it , or otherwise make it go away . Robert says , on the other hand , to embrace it fully , to see it in all its glory , to invite it closer and get yourself into the middle of it as completely as possible .
3 . Feel the “ discomfort energy ” fully . Rather than rushing through the Process as soon as you feel the least little discomfort , let it build as much as possible .
In fact , it may take more than one experience in the second half of the Human Game to switch off that power flow ; and the more we can get at one time , the faster and easier the process will be to “ reclaim ” it all . Therefore let the discomfort grow as much as possible to process as much as you can at one time ; and then be prepared to do it again later , either with the same person , place , or thing , or a similar situation , until all the power you have placed “ out there ” has been turned off .
( There are some workable techniques you might want to use to help the discomfort build , like “ Focusing ” developed by Dr . Eugene Gendlin .
( It can help a lot to actually write these things down as you go through the Process , at least in the beginning . )
So “ calling it what it is ” means acknowledging and owning up to the fact that your discomfort is based on the judgments , beliefs , and opinions you formed as a reaction or response to this situation .
Owning Up!
The “ truth about it ” is that no one and nothing “ out there ” is going to change to make you happier . You’re the one who’s going to have to change your reactions and responses to your experiences ; you’re the one who’s going to have to take 100 % responsibility for how you feel and your condition in life ; you’re the one who jumped into this uncomfortable hole , rather than being pushed or forced or tricked into it .
Owning Up!
The “ truth about it ” is that no one can ever be a victim of anyone or anything at any time in any experience ; likewise , there are no unwanted perpetrators . As long as you feel like you’re a victim , you have assigned power “ out there ” that isn’t real .
Joy Of Owning Up!
The “ truth about it ” is that you have no power to change the experience or anyone or anything “ out there . ” The only power you have as a Player is using your free will to change the way you react and respond to the holographic experiences created for you by your Infinite I .
Joy of Owning Up!
It was your judgments , beliefs , and opinions that provided the power in the first place . Think of it this way …
( If there are still judgments , beliefs , and opinions associated with that holographic experience – in other words , you didn’t get them all the first time – the light won’t go off completely and your Infinite I will give you another opportunity later to run the Process on the same or similar circumstances again . )
Express appreciation . Expressing appreciation is perhaps the most important step . Even if you don’t “ like ” the experience you are having , do whatever possible ( “ fake it until you make it ” ) to express appreciation to your Infinite I for the experience – and especially thanks and appreciation to the person , place , or thing that was causing you the discomfort . After all , your Infinite I has just given you the gift of showing you where you assigned power “ out there ” in the past , and that’s worthy of some appreciation ; and the people , places , or things that caused your discomfort have given you the gift of expertly playing a role in your holographic movie to assist you in your process of becoming a butterfly – definitely worthy of appreciation .
Owning Up!
I realize this may be difficult in the beginning ; but in fact , you may soon be wanting other people , places , or things who make you feel less than totally joyful to show up in your holograms as much and as often as they can , just so you can see where you've assigned power " out there " and " reclaim " it .
Joy Of Owning Up!
Robert’s Process can be very effective when dealing with discomfort that seems to come from “ out there , ” but it’s not as effective when you have reached the point where there is no longer any thought of “ out there ” and you are more interested in looking “ in here . ” That’s because judgments , beliefs , and opinions are only the tip of the iceberg ; and once you’ve gotten comfortable and been successful in letting go of them , you’re ready for the next stage of your metamorphosis .
The severity of the discomfort does not matter ; the process is exactly the same regardless of the content of the hologram . None of it is real , no matter the intensity , whether it is a minor cut on your finger or a near - fatal car accident . It just seems real – it looks and feels real – and the more emotional or physical pain , the more real it becomes , which means the more power we have assigned to it .
That’s why I suggest starting with Robert’s Process to take the “ heat ” and the “ reality ” out of the situation , and then work your way into Jed’s spiritual autolysis , always reminding yourself that the experience has been created by your Infinite I to show you where you assigned power , to give you the opportunity to change how you react and respond , and then decide whether you want to continue living with the fears and the layers of false ego identities .
Stay-let difficulty be processed-clear questioning of fear.
Yes , it might take a little longer to process the more extreme feelings of discomfort , but the Process itself doesn’t change . It might mean you “ reclaim ” some power the first time through the Process , but there’s still a lot left to go back and get the next time , or the third time , or the three - hundredth time through the experience . The “ good ” thing is that each time you run the Process on a particular situation and turn off some of the power associated with it , it gets less intense and therefore a little easier the next time .
Eventually , within a couple years , you will do all of this with ease and excitement , appreciating the experiences of discomfort – if they come up – as an opportunity to locate and process the last remnants of judgment and fear , but living more as a “ witness ” to your own life .
Here’s another quick example of how this judgment - belief - opinion cycle happens … . Let’s say you judge prostitution to be “ wrong , ” for whatever reason . You then form a belief that the government should do something to stop it , and you hold the opinion that any man or woman who engages in prostitution is acting immorally . And let’s say your Infinite I creates an experience for you in your cocoon where you come face to face with this , such as your husband or wife or lover or son or daughter or good friend – someone you love and respect and admire – gets arrested on charges of prostitution , either soliciting or selling sex for money . I can imagine this might cause you some discomfort , severe discomfort if it were your husband or wife , I’m sure . So this is your chance to run Robert’s Process first , to take the “ heat ” and “ discomfort ” and “ reality ” out of the situation , and then run Jed’s spiritual autolysis to discover the false belief , false information , and layers of ego that resulted from this judgment . Most of the time you can simply follow the discomfort – the emotion or pain , for example – to uncover the judgment . In this example it should be fairly easy to find the underlying judgment , that you consider prostitution to be “ wrong , ” and to use spiritual autolysis to ask , “ Is that true ? ” But sometimes it’s not that easy ; the judgment is not so readily available , buried more deeply , hiding from your awareness . So instead you can follow the emotion to find the belief , and then follow the belief to find the judgment . Or , if the belief is also hard to get at , follow the emotion to find the opinion , then follow the opinion to find the belief , then follow the belief to find the judgment . You get the picture .
… so consider every emotion you have that is less than total joy , excitement , and enthusiasm to be a signpost – a red flag – leading you to your opinions , beliefs , and judgments . In fact , you can do this for any opinion or belief at any time , without needing your Infinite I to create a catalytic experience for you . If you hear yourself offering an opinion – any opinion – look for the belief that led you to that opinion , then look deeper for the judgment that led to the belief .
Not having to wait for an experience to happen--you can work on it right now.
Those would be my choices if I could choose . But I will be wherever my Infinite I wants me to be and experience whatever my Infinite I wants me to experience with full joy and without hesitation or judgment or resistance , because I totally trust my Infinite I , and that is my job as its Player in the Human Game .
I would caution especially those who are new to their cocoon to be very wary of this opinion - preference thing . Judgments are sometimes hard enough to spot for processing without making it any harder ; and it seems so easy to say , “ I prefer not to be around that kind of person , ” and think it’s a statement of preference when in fact it’s a statement of judgment .
The truth is that all resistance is based on a judgment ; or put the other way , resistance would not exist without a prior judgment . If you judge something to be “ negative , ” you resist it . So the solution is not to try to deny or ignore the “ negative ” thoughts and focus on the “ positive ones , ” but to eliminate the judgment altogether that is the source of the resistance .
You want a “ better ” job ? Stop judging the one you have and you will stop resisting it at the same time . Although I don’t want to state this as “ Truth , ” it has been my experience that as long as I judge and resist something , I stay in that experience . Only when I stop judging , and therefore automatically stop resisting , is it possible for my experience to change .
I had been with Up With People about a year and spent most of that time as the drummer ; but I wanted to be more than that . I wanted to be a musical director , and I kept judging my drumming to be “ less than ” what I wanted and was capable of , and therefore resisted it . One day as I was going to sleep in Caracas , I had a major transformation and said a very sincere prayer . . . . “ Chief , I have made a decision . If you want me to be a drummer for the rest of my life , if that’s the best way I can serve you and the rest of mankind , I will do it – joyfully , gladly , and enthusiastically . I promise . ” And I meant it . … and I gave up all judgment and resistance to drumming at that moment .
So it’s not just about not resisting . It’s about embracing what you resist ; about not trying to fix or change or improve something , but about realizing it is all perfect , war and violence included . That’s what “ what you resist persists ” means .
What are you actually saying when you resist an experience ? You’re saying your Infinite I got it wrong and you don’t trust it .
But I’m starting to sound like some other new - age philosophers , suggesting we need to let go of our fear of death ; and that’s not really what I’m trying to say at all . I’m saying we need to stop resisting death and begin to meet it eye to eye , embrace it , bring it into our conscious awareness on a daily basis , and make it our constant companion . I’m suggesting we need to stop judging death as “ wrong ” or “ bad ” and life as “ right ” or “ good , ” to stop living in duality when it comes to life and death .
I had such an experience . When I first lost control of my car , doing 75 mph down the Interstate on cruise control , and it swerved and started to roll over , my first thought was , “ Is this how I’m going to die ? ” I remember asking the question with no emotion and no resistance and no panic ; and the answer came back immediately , “ No . ” So I continued to completely relax , not resisting , not trying to stop the rolling , not trying to brace myself against anything , just totally going with the flow and the motion , letting my body move freely wherever the car wanted to take it . In fact , my non - resistance to what was happening is without question the physical reason I was not killed as the roof caved in during the first roll .
PART THREE: QUESTIONS & ANSWERS
Another big problem with compassion is the part that makes you want to “ relieve ” or “ alleviate ” someone else’s suffering . Frankly , although it’s cloaked in a very acceptable social veneer , it is the height of arrogance to think we know better than their own Infinite I what experiences another person should be having . Even Mahatma Gandhi said , “ Be the change you wish to see in the world . ” He didn’t say , “ Go out and change the world into the way you wish to see it , ” or “ Go out and change other people’s experiences into the way you think they should be . ”
us . Put simply , someone else’s pain and suffering that finds its way into our holograms is an opportunity to leave judgment and compassion behind and explore a new way of feeling and acting .
As long as your time and attention is tied up trying to alleviate the pain and suffering of others , you will never have what it takes to process your own judgments , beliefs , opinions , and fears . Instead you will hang on for dear life to this layer of the ego – this identity you are not – called “ compassionate . ”
HBMATA0056
we can use them in a different way, which we could call jiu-jitsu yoga , using the habits and h ungers of the machine to overcome the machine ' s will to remain asleep.
HBMATA0119
The alchemical process is cumul ative . It does not regress , but it may not continue for a hundred-thousand year s . At each complete alchemical process , the p rocess is stabilized . There is no reversal so, once begun, it must b e finished , otherwise we will be forced t o live i n pain; the cup will not pass from u s .
HBMATA0137
But the main point is that, if we intend to try to awaken the machine , w e must not do anything else at the same time. We must place a pure hermetic seal u pon the t ime we have set aside for this effort . We h ave got to make up our minds that we will tolerate no distraction during this time .
Even with an u ntrained attention , anyone ought to b e abl e to set aside five minutes a day during which nothing else enters to distract or attract the attention-no outside worries , no b u siness con cerns, no anticipation of the day ' s p roblems , no nervous agitatio n , no upsets, no daily problems , no emotional outbursts , n o arguments, no amusements , no entertainment-ju st for five minutes out of a whole day l When we first begi n , we establ ish an exact, very s hort, period of time that we know we can set aside without distraction s . Boil ing the work-time down to a mere five 94 The Human Biological Machine. as a Transformational Apparatus minutes serves to help us extract the essence of a whole day ' s effort .
HBMATA0138
We m u s t n o t b ite o ff more t h a n we c a n chew or the beachhead will be defe ated. We must not try to do too much at once, if we expect to see results .
We must set aside the same exact time-period every day , t o t h e exact second-then w e know that every d a y w e h ave a certain amount of time to work-and only that short amount of time-during which time we are to try to awaken the machine , thinking of nothing else , doing nothing else, worrying about nothing else .
If the time period is not too long, our whol e , undistracted and unwandering attention should be able to focus on this effort without fail .
but the period for work is s acre d , sacrosanct-inviolable
This works best if we agree with ourselves to hol d this beachhead at the s ame time every day , without fail . We must not lose our foothold on the Fourth Dimension by wan dering away fro m our beachhead even for one d ay , or we are forced to begin again , not at the same point we began , but lower, because we h ave exposed a seriou s weakness.
Because we are concentrating our effort into j u st five minutes, we increase the potency of our effort
HBMATA0139
dynamo, building the potency for our beachhead in the Dimensio n , generating the force for our attack at daw n
HBMATA0140
We are accumulating energy for a five minute work period for the following day. We are not to deplete each other ' s work force .
During this time. we will keep a work-diary, a record of combat against the will of the mach in e . This diary is obligatory, and no one is exempt. In the diary we w il l keep notes about what was and was not effective, what we think might h ave worked , and so on.
During Sitting, writie notes; Prior To Full force attack.
During the remainder of the day, when we are not working to awaken the machine. we can study the machine, evaluate the sleep of the machine and see how difficult it would be to extend our beachhead into this enemy territory.
HBMATA0141
We may observe the machine on a total rampage, and for the first time we may realize that eventually, someday, sooner or l ater, we are expected to awaken the machine during the rampage , every single moment of it.
We can use our time to b egin our evaluation of the sleep of the machine , the l ife of the machine, how much will it e xerts over the situation , how difficult the terrain .
We probably already h ave a good idea of which territorie s , which states, a r e going t o be difficult.
Spend the d ay evaluating the sleep of the machine and evaluating how difficult it would be, by asking yourself specifically, ' Well, how hard wou l d it be to wake the machine up in this sit u ation? What kind of problems is the machine making for me here? '
In a sense, we are gathering military intelligence to expan d our b eachhead with the purpose of eventually extending our invasion.
This is no joke. For five minute s every day we will l iterally hold territory in another dimension , a dimension about which we know absolutely nothing.
HBMATA0142
The only weapon we really have or need is the gentle erosion of the sleep of the machine under the inexorable pressure of the wind and water of attention .
HBMATA0169
When we can assure ourselves that we can re-enter the sleeping state whenever we wish , we will be far less reluctant to leave the sleeping state and enter the waking state . If we have the key for reintegration of the sleeping state, we also have the key to achieving the waking state.
In a sense, the intentional disintegration and reintegration of the sleeping state is the key to the waking state . When we are able to freely leave the sleeping state , enter the waking state and then leave the waking state and reenter the sleeping state, the m achine will no longer fear the waking state, and the defense mechanism will slowly disarm itself, almost effortlessly .
The m achine must be able to view the waking state without fear-the fear that it might be trapped in the waking state forever.
We can use the sleeping state to learn to solve the problems of the waking state, and to prepare ourselves to accomplish the Work, which is what we call that which is of real value from the viewpoint of the waking state, hoping to someday enter the permanent waking state.
No Pressure. If you find it very difficult for example, fear of being not so aggresive or standing up for yourself kind of person. Jusy see how dofficult it is for being freed from machin'es hold under such conditions. Don't fight it!
HBMATA0172
With the key to the sleeping state , we have eliminated the machine' s primary objection to the waking state.
HBMATA0183
Of course , if the essential self had not b een drawn into the machine , transformation and evolution would be impossible, so although it occurred by accident, we can take it as serendipito u s , a fortunate accident which gives us an opportunity we would not have had otherwise.
HBMATA0188
It isn ' t possible to enter the Work without a machine which has been transformed, and at the same time, preparation for the Work provides the necessity for transformation and places us in a situation in which transformation is an inevitable necessity .
HBMATA0190
Our first taste of real freedom can easily seduce us away from the concept of divine slavery, by which I mean an intentional working partnership with the machine.
Attraction to a school does not occur b y interest, information or accident, but by electrical affinity . Without affinity for a school, one cannot possibly enter a school .
HBMATA0215
That i s your absolute key that you are n e ar the waking state . If you can recognize your chronic when it is happening, not try to defend against it , not try to get rid of it, not try to flush it down the toilet, not look at it as somethi ng negative but realize that that is your key to the waking stat e , then you are getting somewhere .
We must remember that when our chronic is most powerful then we are at our closest point to the waking state , and when it is less powerful then we are further away. It is almost unnoticeable when we are very far away
We must search out the s ituations which most activate the chronic . These are the situations we should be in most of the time , as much as we can tolerate it without making ourselves sick.
HBMATA0216
If you try to repress the feelings because you d on ' t want to act them out or you don' t feel that they are right, or you think that there is something wrong with being fearful or angry or fru strated or whatever your chronic h appens to be, if you don' t stop it from going on its course, it can take you to the point where you can cross over.
If you start intervening with your intellectualism , if you do anything other than observe it and allow it to be without acting it out, then you lose the opportunity that it affords.
HBMATA0217
It i s j ust a m atter of realizing that your chronic has been activated and allowing it to take you . Like a guide , it w ill take you by the h an d and lead you to the waking state.
You want to wallow in the chronic without manifesting the chronic, although if you manifest a littl e b it that i s fine. Not much though . And l et it grab you by the hand. Let it take you to the promised l and . The thing you h ate most is your guide .
The power to return our minds to the Now allows us to communicate more of our inborn authentic and spontaneous natures . The present moment becomes our ground of being , because that’s where we’ll find the juice of life and the truth of who we are and why we are here .
It takes heightened energy to give ourselves the spiritual muscle needed to embrace feelings that have for so long closed our hearts and dimmed our lights , instead of collapsing into them . This energy brings our awareness to the Now and allows us to see what is , not merely what our usual desires or fears might predispose us to see .
Spiritual Muscle
I have seen that what inevitably halts our spiritual maturity and compromises our capacity to love is believing that we must protect ourselves from difficult feelings , such as abandonment and despair . But the only reason we cannot face them is that
we have not developed the energy to stay present with them as they arise . However , until we stop fleeing whatever feelings we believe can annihilate us , we cannot mature fully or love without restraint . Sooner or later we must embrace these dark parts of life . We must trust the soul’s profound capacity to meet and be in relationship with whatever we experience , without having to defend ourselves or even react .
Muscle to stay
There is an enormous difference between how the self meets experience — how it judges and reacts to a feeling — and how the soul meets the same experience or feeling .
Instead we reflexively use our minds to defend against difficult feelings or challenging situations , not realizing that when we do this we are never in the Now . As a result , consciously or subconsciously , we frequently feel as if our lives are built on quicksand . We feel as if we are in danger of being engulfed by any sensation , thought , or event that threatens the tenuous foundation of self on which we are poised .
But when we become conscious of the subtle power of awareness and increase our ability to remain present , we begin to see that the reality of our experience , and what we are further capable of experiencing , is determined ultimately by the quality of our relationship to
being in the work mode
Part One: Fundamental Principles of Awareness: The Journey from Self to Self
Spiritual muscle is not something we can coerce in ourselves . Our initial reaction to negative feelings is to want to escape them . We may consciously direct our attention toward positive thoughts by means of intention and will — by so - called positive thinking and the use of positive affirmations . But in doing so , we are only reacting , and we remain caught in our fear or discomfort . We can instead use real spiritual muscle ( and true positive thinking ) and turn our nonreactive inner gaze toward whatever we are afraid of . We can use the power of awareness itself . The more we do so , instead of throwing our minds into some form of self - protection , the more we grow in the mysterious power that is faith .
Faith is perhaps the most profound and most mysterious experience of all , and it is inextricably related to our power of awareness . Faith grows as the self - Self relationship deepens and as we learn to remain present in difficult situations that , at an earlier stage of life , we would have completely identified with .
We are enlightened only to the degree that we are able to fully experience , and not become identified with and captured by , our emotions . The great challenge to letting our consciousness evolve is facing our terrifying feelings and difficult emotions , like shame and despair . On any given day , we might imagine ourselves as truly progressing on the path of enlightenment , and yet , as soon as we feel threatened in some way , we may discover just how easily we can lose our center and become defensive , reactive , or aggressive .
But what if we choose to accept that our true story always begins now , that this very moment is , for each of us , perpetually the beginning of ourselves ? Immediately this places us in a position of authority , of being the authors of our own lives . Minute by minute and hour by hour , we can create ourselves anew by the way we are present to ourselves and our situation , independent of the past or the future . When we realize that , from the perspective of the soul , or true self , every single moment is wide open to us for a completely fresh start , we claim and inhabit our destinies as cocreators .
If we are to live fully , then when we are suffering we must not run away . We must be willing to allow this suffering as a conscious process .
Nonreactive attention grows organically as a consequence of deepening consciousness . We turn our attention toward every moment and really taste it — as it is , sweet or bitter . To become more conscious is to experience the Now in ever - greater depth .
if we stay present in the here and now , then the energy in those feelings loses the power to pull us away from our true selves and make us false . We are false when we disguise or bury our vulnerability by becoming aggressive , or when we try to please others because we have long ago lost the ability to take the risk of speaking our truth and perhaps being judged or rejected .
When we choose to live the process of conscious suffering , we finally allow ourselves to totally feel and meet what we used to bury or hide . It is one of the most essential creative processes in a human life , and we exercise this power of awareness without any certainty about the outcome .
When our souls are ready , conscious suffering simply means there is nowhere else to go , and that we will face something right here , right now . We assume full authority to remain present , at the beginning of ourselves , for what we feel . In this relationship , we gradually become substantial human beings .
Being present and attentive to our feelings without collapsing into them , and not identifying with our suffering , is analogous to the way a loving , empathic mother relates and responds to her baby ( see chapter 3 ) . She brings her whole presence to the infant , both practically and empathically . In a similar way , we can give our feelings our total attention and empathy . We can tenderly hold our own inner experience , recognizing how we are and softly releasing any judgments or reactions that are contributing to our suffering .
Our actual experience , as we nonreactively attend to our suffering , will show us that the Self — the part of us that is always more than whatever we’re feeling , and which is always present — is an empathic , ever - patient companion .
At first it will be all that we can manage simply to stay present with the difficult feelings and not flee within seconds . To nonreactively hold these feelings requires strengthening the muscle of attention , and ultimately the muscle of faith , so that we do not become identified with the feelings .
the survival programming must gradually weaken its grip on us , because without the support of thoughts and stories , it does not exist .
As we increase our ability to create a conscious holding environment for all our feelings and experiences , the intensity of our emotional distress fades , and we begin to feel spontaneous gratitude for life as it is .
We are heavily conditioned to flee from unhappiness and pain . We keep postponing a relationship with our suffering , imagining that we can escape it or overcome it elsewhere .
We always want a pill , a magic formula to fix things . We thrive on endless forms of escape , and what has chased us from the beginning of time we refuse to finally face .
than the poet T . S . Eliot , when he wrote : I said to my soul , be still , and wait without hope For hope would be hope for the wrong thing ; wait without love For love would be love of the wrong thing ; there is yet faith But the faith and the love and the hope are all in the waiting . Wait without thought , you are not ready for thought : So the darkness shall be the light , and the stillness the dancing .
This waiting without hope or love or thought is the essence of creating a conscious holding environment , especially when we face the untamed feelings .
One way that I approach the challenge of teaching the art of creating a conscious holding environment is through a practice that I call sacred attention .
Generally , we are unconscious of the power we have to influence the quality of our attention — the actual way in which we , moment by moment , offer our attention .
Until we begin to explore the power of awareness , we haven’t the least idea that we can , moment by moment , offer our attention with a quality of exquisite receptivity and softness , no matter what the circumstance may be , and in so doing significantly transform the experience . Exquisite receptivity is a refinement of attention that automatically brings us into presence , because to be aware of the quality of our attention is to be in the present .
Then the energy work becomes a means to an end in which there may be success or not , and we have missed the deeper understanding : it is the quality of our attention that opens the door of the present into the awareness field of love and wholeness . Healing energy is simply derived from this greater presence .
Part Two: Utilizing the Power of Awareness: Welcoming Ourselves Home
By expanding our awareness of the ways we flee from the present and lose connection to the essential Self , we begin to “ shrink ” the process of Self - avoidance and thus learn to live more consistently as who we really are . We can frame our inquiry this way : Where do we go when we are not in the Now ?
Ching : “ Do you have the patience to wait till your mud settles and the water is clear ? Can you remain unmoving till the right action arises by itself ? ”
As we begin to understand that we do not have to live as victims of our own thinking , the muddy water is a helpful and wry reminder of what we are doing to ourselves , and that there is always another choice : to let our mud settle .
The crucial reason for learning to return to the beginning of ourselves is that here we gradually build the spiritual muscle — the power of our attention — needed to meet the difficult and even untamed emotions that have driven us away from ourselves all our lives .
We are seeking comprehension of something that can never be resolved at the level of thinking . But even if these thoughts create further confusion and suffering , it is always a form of suffering that does not fundamentally threaten our sense of a separate self to the same extent that the core feeling does .
When we ask , “ Where do we go when we leave the Now , the beginning of ourselves ? ” we are inquiring into how we keep defeating our own self - transcending impulses because of our egos ’ fear of nonbeing . We could call it avoiding enlightenment . Understanding how we do this is an essential part of the path of Self - realization . Learning to come back to our beginning is also necessary to truly heal the wounds of early childhood so that we do not have to keep fleeing from our untamed emotions and externalizing our fears .
To describe what this is like , let me use the example of Cary , a very bright thirty - year - old literature teacher whom I counseled . Cary was dissatisfied with so much in her life . She spoke about how difficult it was at work : the students weren’t respectful ; they didn’t want to learn ; parents didn’t care or were too involved ; she had too many papers to grade at home ; there wasn’t enough time for herself ; the curriculum suffocated her spontaneity and creativity in the classroom ; she would never get ahead financially . These were just a few of the stories that regularly plagued her . But the most disturbing one was that she considered this career a compromise . She had wanted to do something with her life that she felt was more adventurous and creative and hadn’t because of her survival fears . While all her complaints and desires could be considered valid at their own level , a deeper truth was that they were just stories , and telling them to herself caused her suffering . Each story kept her from living the simple fullness of herself , and each time she told herself one of these stories , she poisoned her Now and drained her own energy .
An Example: Wonderful one.
In teaching her to work with the Mandala process , I suggested that she welcome this period of her life as an opportunity for spiritual practice . Every time she realized that she had left the Now - moment and gone into me , you , past , or future stories while at work , her task was simply to return to the present and meet whatever she was feeling , without reaction . She was to just breathe , be with herself , and step into the present . I was asking her to slowly grow her faith in her true self . In this way she would hold on to a little of the energy that she usually dissipated by entering the stories .
I explained to her that she needed this energy if her own transformation was to be anything more than running away from the idea that “ this isn’t it . ” I told her to think of the Mandala work as simply learning to release the power of just a single story daily , by not giving herself over to it . I pointed out that , by so doing , each day she could return from her job a little less poisoned and with a little more energy , feeling a little more alive . I told her that she did not have to think about changing anything in her life except her own Self - avoidance . I suggested that at the end of a year , the incremental increase in her energy would cumulatively become a significant shift in where , in herself , she lived her life from . As a result she would naturally begin to attract new potentials and opportunities for her life . She would hardly have to make a choice ; she would automatically take the right steps . And that is exactly what happened . She grew stronger and more confident in herself and naturally began to follow her heart . She discovered that when she stopped telling herself stories about having no time , she did have time after all , and she began to take dance classes . Within two years she had shifted to a part - time teaching position and had begun a new career as a dance and movement instructor , something she truly feels stimulated by and is grateful to be doing .
To help you evoke some specific stories , begin by recalling a particular scenario in which you felt uncomfortable in some way . Think of a time when you felt insecure , frightened , sad , angry , competitive , or jealous . Or you could bring to mind a situation in which you felt particularly good about yourself , perhaps proud , attractive , powerful , or even superior .
This is not easy to do ; we are not familiar with giving ourselves permission to stay present with difficult feelings
Simply imagine how you would be if you were just yourself in the same situation but without the stories .
Whatever you feel , let yourself feel it ; don’t just think about what you might feel . Speak aloud so you can hear yourself saying what you are feeling right in this new moment . Rest in this felt sense of who you are in the Now , having shifted your awareness enough to have some distance from the stories .
Our ability to enter states of expansiveness , clear - mindedness , and centeredness is always the cumulative result of living more in the Now .
The reason people quickly leave these higher states is that without the constant reinforcement of consciousness work to refresh the mind’s connection with the immediacy of the moment , its habit is to move away from the present .
When the mind is in the past , we tend to feel regret or nostalgia or guilt . Anger or hurt tend to come from our you stories , hope or anxiety or fear from our future stories , and grandiosity or depression from our me stories .
Kenny – your rage and frustration is indicative of the imbalances within your mind and this work circumstance is helping highlight that for you. It is all a call to bring you into a deeper state of awareness. When you are deeply identified with your own mind, you are easily influenced by all its whims and fears. Then there is little that separates a thought from reality. A thought of something bad or negative happening is felt almost as strongly as the reality of it happening. And so your body reacts with fear, desperation and rage almost instinctively. Harsh circumstances often exist in order to awaken a mind that is knotted up in itself. Its like attempting to wake a person who is fast asleep: sometimes a simple alarm or even yelling doesn’t help, only a firm and solid shake will do the job. Instead of resisting, chastising or feeling ashamed about this rage and frustration: use it. It is waiting to be used. No emotion is ever worthless. Not even anger, not even sadness. Each is a learning tool in its own way. Forget about being ‘light and blissful’ – that’s not your deal right now. Your time will come. First and foremost, you need to work towards cultivating a space between yourself and your mind. This space is necessary in order for you to observe your mind in an impartial way and consciously let go of certain thought-emotion patterns. You can learn to create this space simply by being in a state of ‘relaxed awareness’ as Sen calls it. In other words, take a few moments everyday to be aware of yourself, whether they are scheduled chunks of time like 30 mins in the morning or evening, or simply spontaneous bits of time here and there as you see fit. Over time you may find it becomes easier to remain in a relaxed state despite a busy or heavy momentum within your mind. Just cultivating this space is enough for the time being. Simplify your feelings. Its one thing to be frustrated, but being frustrated at being frustrated only means more frustration. Your judgment of your circumstances creates one layer of trauma, your judgment of yourself creates a whole other layer.
What Sen calls “Allowing” is in a sense all about forgiveness. When you “allow” your experience and your conditioning, what you are really doing is responding with tolerance, compassion and understanding ( in other words, forgiving). As I mentioned, your ego is a construct of not only your own personal conditioning but also that of your parents, your ancestors, your nation, your race, your gender and your species. When you adopt an attitude of gentle patience and allow these conditionings to release, you are forgiving not only yourself but all of humanity as well.
Voluntary Suffering: different from the ordinary suffering of humanity which is due to the action of habit and belief systems, expectations and desire; the result of the Conscious Intention to observe myself honestly, without judgment or trying to change what is observed; unlike ordinary mechanical suffering, Voluntary Suffering has the power to transform the Being.
Conscious, intentional inner labor to observe myself as I am, without judgment or trying to change what is observed; remembering myself in the midst of my daily life; voluntary suffering as a result of observing myself as I am, without buffers, lying, blaming, or justifying.
The fight-flight response reminds me to be kind and forgive, it calls me to conscious attention. Thus, instead of making it the enemy (trying to change it, fight it) I have transformed it into my ally and companion in the inner Work. Now there is no more insane fight within. There is cooperation, communication between the centers, harmonious inner working of the human biological instrument for the good of love and for the good of the other. This is unselfish love, objective love. And it does not depend on a feeling, although the feeling of love may be present, but it often is not when the other hurts me. Instead, this kind of objective love depends solely on commitment and practice. Thus it is dependable and consistent, not subject to the tyranny of mood. Mood is like a hunter searching for a deer in the tall grass. If the deer remains still, unmoving, the hunter moves on. Cease identification with what you are not and the hunter has no more ammunition, your suffering is at an end.
the effort to change what is observed merely serves to further empower that which is observed and which “I” am making effort to change. Result? No change, habitual repetition of act—judgment of act—effort to change act—resulting guilt and condemnation when it does not change—further repetition of act. It is a cycle. It repeats. It can be predicted, because it is habitual. All habits are “i’s”.
Will of Attention: The fundamental, minimal ability to consciously direct the attention onto an object or inner process, even in the grip of identification, and when no other action is possible; the ability to see myself as I am in the midst of my daily life.
Negative Emotion: all fear-based emotions other than those related to present-danger to the organism; those emotions which are not love.
Intention: From the intellectual center, although it can be deeper, possibly from the Being; when it is combined with Wish from emotional center, it can be the beginning of Will (see also: Wish, Will).
Buffers: a system whose function is to protect the ego-structure and prevent me from seeing myself as I am; to prevent me from seeing the contradictions of various small “i’s” in me; composed of many things, among which are blame, justification, self importance, and self pity.
Attention: the act of focusing the mind, feelings, and Being on an object or process; the Being is Attention in a human body; Consciousness (see also: Being).
On the journey of the Warrior . . . instead of transcending the suffering of all creatures, we move toward turbulence and doubt however we can. We explore the reality and unpredictability of insecurity and pain, we try not to push it away. If it takes years—if it takes lifetimes—we let it be as it is. At our own pace, without speed or aggression. We move down and down. With us move millions of others, our companions in awakening from fear.
When I am present to the presence within (yet another level of self remembering), help arrives. Transformation is the result. The brain is re-ordered and the being is transformed.
Now I am a conduit, a “hollow bamboo” as Zen calls it. I am an objective receiver of higher emanations and an objective eater of vibratory energetic impressions. I am an efficient Work-unit in the Creation, maturely and responsibly assuming my lawful place, attuned, in harmony, lawfully aligned with the Creator. This is the highest level of self remembering.
The right hemisphere, once activated consciously, is now a conduit for the unknown, for “insight” and the flow of wisdom. This is another form of meditation, meditation in action.
Now the left hemisphere can assume its higher function, as a passive servant of the right hemisphere which becomes more consciously active, and whose function is to receive input from higher centers.
On the other side, the right hemisphere is silent witness, observing without interference. As the multitude on the left cease to be fed on a regular basis, they quiet as well.
On one side of the island (brain), all of the various “i’s” exist with their multitude of agendas, the asylum, trying to grab the attention.
Here’s how that works. When I consciously focus the activity of the left hemisphere on finding the body and sensing it, placing attention in the upper part of the prefrontal cortex, this occupies the left hemisphere of the brain so that it cannot continue its random and compulsive searching and sorting of its contents. Now it has found its rightful place in the instrument and slowly, slowly it will come to understand its lawful place. It will come to understand what it can usefully and efficiently do in the operation of the instrument.
In other words, the brain is being re-ordered and transformed in the presence of “insight” into wholly new and unknown configurations. This is what meditation and Self Observation do. Lehrer says, “An insight is a fleeting glimpse of the brain’s huge store of unknown knowledge. The cortex is sharing one of its secrets” (45).
This path takes courage. Courage doesn’t come cheap. Courage is not for heroes, heroes don’t need it; courage is for cowards like me.0
If I do not interfere with this energy, steal it for selfish psycho-dramas or fantasy, negative emotions, and imagination, then the body is able to assume its higher objective function as a transformational instrument, to feed the Creator, or higher centers. Everything in the universe must eat, this is objective law. The Creator is not exempt.
An objective eater of vibratory energetic impressions is the Work humans were created to do: to help the Creator maintain Its creation and to provide finer substances or food, both for the creation of a higher body within me and to feed higher beings such as the Earth, an angelic being.
My task is to consciously not inter fere with incoming energy, allowing the body to perform its higher functions. If I constantly steal this energy, the body remains fixated on the mammal level, a mere machine.
He was called Rudi, or Swami Rudrananda. Rudi was an objective eater of vibratory energy impressions and he taught others to do this as well. He worked with the higher centers. He would sit in a room with his students for hours and simply absorb the vibratory energy of incoming impressions, without interference NOTE: Wow, similarly I can dedicate my life, atleast for now, to allow the impressions within the family to be eaten consciously. I can be useful that way too.I don't have to try to stop them, family members, from not reacting to their helpless impressions.
I must begin to “eat” the vibratory energy of incoming impressions.
To do so, I must collect and store the vibratory energy of incoming impressions, rather than allowing the intellectual-emotional-complex to steal it and use it up in a useless display of endless, repetitive psycho-dramas and mechanical reactions.
Once conscience is awakened, then I am at the affect of higher centers voluntarily. By my practice I have issued the invitation which activates their influence in me. Conscience is the manifestation of higher centers in me. It is the law and compels the human being to act in a lawful manner, from basic goodness.
It comes from higher centers and is an act of grace; it is the Creator entering fully, lawfully, and by invitation only, into the human biological instrument.
Still there is no need to change anything I observe. Conscience will change everything, and in its own proper and appropriate time and way; I can change nothing and if I try I will make an awful mess of things, just as always.
Bear the unpleasant manifestations of others without complaint or outward show;
I no longer am comfortable being the cause of my Creator’s suffering. Period. Thus, I act at once when out of alignment to keep a clear conscience.
Even a mustard seed of conscience—the tiniest, microscopic trace of the mind and heart of our Creator—can become the most powerful force in the human biological instrument. You want miracle? What are you willing to pay to live in the miraculous? This mustard seed is the miracle of the Creator’s mind and heart placed in the human biological instrument. But you must pay to receive. And voluntary suffering is the only thing we have in us to pay with—it becomes the dearest coin
From “aim” I have ally. Now when my inner habitual tendencies arise daily, moment to moment, right alongside them is aim. In fact, at some point, these inner habitual tendencies shift and become inner “reminding factor” to remind me of my aims. Thus, they are transformed from weaknesses, flaws, into faithful servants of my Work; they are brought into my inner Work circle.* No longer do I fight against them and try to change them, but as they are, they serve my aims and help me. They feed conscience, which allows it to develop, grow, and mature.
Awakened conscience is the thing in me which can be trusted. Absolutely, always and in everything. Conscience is incapable of lying. It is what the Sufis call the True Friend within; it is the source of real help and guidance on the path. It is the Creator’s help in the individual soul’s journey towards union with Source.
there are those masters who have called the awakening of conscience “the awakening of consciousness.”
Our practice is to do two things with this suffering: see it and feel it. Period.
That is, if I continue to observe myself honestly, long enough, conscience will awaken in me; that is lawful and unavoidable. It is a by-product of honest self observation.
The first thing, and the most important thing, to be understood about the path of self observation without judgment or trying to change what is observed is this: the path of self observation is a path of awakening conscience.
That mercy I to others show, That mercy show to me.
Conscience depends upon an understanding of objective suffering. The least we are asked to be able to do as completed man is to suffer the unpleasant manifestations of others toward ourselves and others without resentment, to take no action against wrongs done us, and to have compassion for those whose nature is more powerful than their being. (E.J. Gold. The Joy of Sacrifice, 99)
Mood is like a hunter searching for a deer in the tall grass. If the deer remains still, unmoving, the hunter moves on.
The fight-flight response reminds me to be kind and forgive, it calls me to conscious attention. Thus, instead of making it the enemy (trying to change it, fight it) I have transformed it into my ally and companion in the inner Work. Now there is no more insane fight within. There is cooperation, communication between the centers, harmonious inner working of the human biological instrument for the good of love and for the good of the other. This is unselfish love, objective love. And it does not depend on a feeling, although the feeling of love may be present, but it often is not when the other hurts me. Instead, this kind of objective love depends solely on commitment and practice. Thus it is dependable and consistent, not subject to the tyranny of mood. Mood is like a hunter searching for a deer in the tall grass. If the deer remains still, unmoving, the hunter moves on. Cease identification with what you are not and the hunter has no more ammunition, your suffering is at an end.
Thus, the contamination becomes my ally: it becomes an “inner reminding factor” which takes me immediately to my inner aims: conscious attention, kindness, generosity, forgiveness, hard work. The fight-flight response reminds me to be kind and forgive, it calls me to conscious attention.
Let’s say the other hurts my feelings and triggers in me the survival instinct: fight or flight. What this simple (but not easy) practice does is this: instead of trying to change the habit—which is the result of judgment, otherwise why the desire to change it?—I merely begin to give it space within, so that the survival instinct (fight or flight) has the space for its natural, biological, genetically programmed response. I give it space when the other hurts me for any reason. And in so doing, now there is no war against—so no unnecessary tension in the body. Now the struggle is for something. What? For objective attention and calm, reasonable, kindness in my response to the one who has hurt
In order to facilitate this practice, may I suggest the following: whenever you are reading this or any book, but especially wisdom literature: keep your spine straight and both feet on the floor (as you are reading this) which will facilitate a certain level and kind of self observation and self remembering. To be radically present to the presence within, the essential being, requires that the attention be focused on bodily sensation (instinctive center) where the attention is anchored and grounded, present to the presence within is what I am calling “the practice of radical presence.” I prefer attention centered in the forehead or at the top of the head, other schools place it variously at the navel, the solar plexus, or the heart center.
Self observation attracts help; it is a fundamental attractive force in the universe. It allows me to operate more efficiently and more objectively in the field of the intellectual-emotional-complex. It is the savior. It is consciousness coming to know itself, learning how to learn and create, while doing the least amount of harm. It is objective love in the process of becoming.
Unless a third force enters into that action-reaction cycle, no substantive change is ever possible. That third force is self observation and its very existence is substantive change.
Self observation with compassion simply means that I stop judging myself and just see and feel whatever arises. Judgment is a trap I fall for every time and is not productive, useful, or compassionate. It is harsh, rigid, and keeps me trapped in an unending cycle of action and reaction.
If I see it and feel it, I don’t have to be it. If I’m not willing to see it, I don’t have any choice.
Unlike thought from memory which operates linearly and step by step, inspiration gives me the whole picture in its entirety all at once, not separated and divided into pieces and steps. It operates as an entire circle, not a straight line.
Inspiration is a fundamentally different form of feeling; in fact it is feeling and not emotion.
Conscience receives direct information from these centers in the form of intuition and inspiration.
The cessation of movement sends a direct signal to the Creator. It is called in ancient traditions “The Invitation.” What enters only upon invitation is a flow of information from higher centers which are the source of wisdom. Some say these centers exist outside of, but directly connected to, the human biological instrument, but I am unsure of this.
In the shamanic tradition this cessation of movement towards or away from thought is called “not doing.”
At that point, when the memory thinks, there is not inner movement towards or away from the thought; this movement towards or away from thought is identification.
The dominance of the intellectual-emotional-complex depends upon continuity of thought. Break that continuity and its dominance ceases because judgment ceases. What is produced when this continuity is broken is a “shift in context.” I no longer operate from an agreed-upon definition of reality, but from reality itself. I operate from what is, exactly as it is, not from meaning supplied by the intellectual-emotional-complex. This entails an acceptance of reality without desire to change anything. It entails non-interference with what is. I take my cues from direct experience of reality in the moment, not from memory which is the past, or the past projected forward, as what it calls the future.
I live in the unknown, in organic ignorance, which is intelligent because it is in direct contact with the source of wisdom, without the interference of memory.
The intention of the Work is to produce freedom in us. There’s only one way that freedom can be produced in us and that is to choose Work mind over neurotic mind. It has to be a conscious choice, and the only way that we’ll ever make a choice that’s conscious, fully conscious, is to see neurotic mind in its totality, in its death. To see it for what it is—empty of all substance, empty of all possibility, empty of all creativity, empty of all genuine, human feeling, empty of heart, empty of mind, empty of everything except its own mechanical survival impetus. That’s it. Until we see it that way, until we see our lives, our love for our parents, our drive for sexual fulfillment, our taste for fine food, our love of good music—until we see all of it as nothing, absolutely nothing but totally mechanical, dead slavery to neurotic mind— we’ll never choose the Work.
The beauty of this transformative being-shock is that the being which emerges from its hiding is simple, not complicated. It is not cunning or devious. It is not divided, it is a single entity. It trusts reality because it is real. It does not endlessly repeat the same worn and tired, non-functional, unworkable patterns or habits. It is a presence and it operates in the present efficiently. It is a human being. It is sane.
Now, mastery of mood and of the body’s functions is possible because the intellectual-emotional-complex has been transformed from master to willing servant. Unnecessary thinking no longer dominates the head-brain. This is called “stopping the world” in the ancient shamanic traditions.
When the Work is the active principle, basic goodness emerges. Virtues arise. The being assumes responsibility for taming and training the mammal, a function which before this has been performed by the master, the teacher.
But first I have to see it 10,000 times or more before I understand that I am not the patterns I am observing: this is the awakening of intelligence.
As long as the being is not conscious of itself, it cannot see what is consuming it. If I see it, I don’t have to be it.
The only “progress” is seeing and feeling the pattern as it takes place = self observation without judgment or identification.
The only thing which can change in this cycle is my relationship to it = non-identification with its patterns and with my blind spot = self-hatred. Identification can stop.
Memory, the thinker, the left hemisphere of the brain, is an electrochemical computer complex programmed to repeat its patterns. Simple. Its whole existence is built around this single aim: to maintain, preserve, and repeat its patterns. The only thing which can change in this cycle is my relationship to it = non-identification with its patterns and with my blind spot = self-hatred. Identification can stop.
It is now clear that the intellectual-emotional-complex will not stop. The only possibility is that my identification with it cease, “cold turkey” as Mister E.J. Gold has called it.
Now, after years of self observation, I realize at this crucial, life-changing point that if I do not take responsibility for my life, my thoughts, my emotions, my habits, and the functions of the human biological instrument, then I will go to my death enslaved and identified with my madness.
Anyone who practices self observation faithfully, without judgment or changing what is observed, with ruthless self-honesty and a relaxed body, will sooner or later come to the point of horror. It is guaranteed. It is the law. It is my experience. This is what I am calling “being-shock” and it is overwhelming. I see that I am a total, helpless slave to my psychology and that it will never change. The only thing that can ever change is my relationship to what is observed: without identification.
Slowly, I begin to trust the reality I observe more than the reality being fed to me by the intellectual-emotional-complex, which denies my basic goodness and creates a world of fear, all to support the illusion of security and control.
This is my only hope for becoming more conscious and not at the mercy of habit; if I see the habit often enough, say , times or more, then I can begin to predict where, when, and how it will manifest exactly as it has so many times before, and I may be prepared before it arises. I may be able to choose another course.
must be verified by your own personal experience. I am no master, merely a good mechanic. Safety lies in no longer taking the word of others for anything. Too long we have followed blindly, like sheep, like herd animals following the leader, even when the leader leads the herd over a cliff or into war.
Verify, verify, verify everything for yourself. Free yourself of the habits of a lifetime, of blind following, of not thinking for yourself. There is no better or safer path to freedom.
this if she began with faith, her faith is strengthened by understanding gained from self observation without judgment; if she began with no faith—as I did—then she will find that she has gained faith. So you see the wonderful irony of it? This is not a faith-based path, because faith is a gift of grace; it comes from the Creator* to those in need of it.
When you are identified with the mind you cannot be very intelligent because you become identified with an instrument, you become confined by the instrument and its limitations. And you are unlimited—you are consciousness.
Good teaching would help me to understand not that I have a soul, but that I am a soul, and I exist for a brief moment in a human biological instrument,* a human body. We are souls having a human experience.
The souls who are sent to Earth are sent to a kindergarten for undeveloped souls; we are souls in embryo. We are sent here to develop ourselves, with help. We cannot do it alone. And help is always available, if I have the eyes to see it and the ears to hear it. Of all the sources of help available to the soul in its development, none is more crucial, more helpful, more revealing, or more direct and personal than self observation.
Very intelligent people may learn slowly. The learning which arises from self observation happens at exactly the pace with which I am able and willing to observe, no more, and no faster. Thus it is safe and it is tailored...
it is difficult for the human mind to believe, is thisthe act of self observation is the only change a human being needs to make in her behavior; everything else, all fundamental changes in behavior, emotion, and thinking arise as a by-product of this practice.
Thus, self observation changes what is observed within. I do not have to change anything; in fact, to attempt to do so is error and leads to trouble. I don’t know what to change or how to change it.
And yet—ponder this—it is to this center, the slowest of all the centers, the center which is always the last to know, which we assign the impossible burden of running the life. This is not what it was designed to do, but what it has been forced to do by our culture and our lifestyle.
Mature souls know how to work and they do their work. Buddha calls this “The way of perfection” (Dhammapada, ). Self observation is, therefore, a lawful practice and a way of power, so it must be practiced according to its laws. Bad habits multiply and lead to trouble, whereas the careful and honest practitioner will find oneself always having a source of inner help in one’s difficulties and struggles.
Sensation is always a present-phenomenon only. I must remember that “I am here now” in this place, in this moment. Otherwise it is merely imagination, pretending, all from the intellect and without real grounding or presence.
Mood is like the weather—a cloud in the sky is not my concern, nor can I do anything about it but merely observe it; likewise, mood is the inner weather, a cloud which is passing through the inner sky.
Thus, for the mature soul, mood does not decide attitude. I am free to choose my attitude at any moment, regardless of circumstances internal or external.
Ruthless self honesty (from Mister Lee Lozowick’s teaching) also meanstell the truth about myself, no matter how bad it makes me look. This kind of honesty is crucial in self observation.
Without it, we join the mass of humanity, whose main concern is looking good in front of others. So this “ruthless self honesty” can be called the fourth law of self observation because it keeps me honest and in the process produces a beautiful byproduct which is humility.
Humility is a gift, it is grace, and it comes to one who works on self in an honest way.
The Work asks me to stand in this pain, doing nothing, trying to change nothing, judging nothing, simply feeling the pain totally without judging it good or bad, right or wrong. Simply stand in the pain and allow it to be sensed throughout the body. Emotional or psychological pain is energy in the body. Nothing else.
The body knows what to do with the energy but only when I do not interfere. But my habits interfereI think about the pain, I react to the pain, I judge the pain, I fight the pain, I try to “fix” the pain, it goes on and on. By my habitual behavior, I interfere.
But if I simply stand in the pain, not doing, sensing the body and the pain, then the body transforms the energy.
By identification I feed the pain; by observing without judgment and standing in the pain, sensing it in the body, it feeds methis is a meta-physical equation.
“An object in motion [pain] tends to stay in motion, unless an outside force [self observation without judgment] acts upon it.”
Mister E.J. Gold has said, “The human biological machine is a transformational apparatus.” It knows what to do with the energy if I do not interfere. See this one time and you will never have the same relationship with your emotional pain again, cannot. Because clarity will have entered into the equation, and once clarity enters, even one time, I cannot be the same again. It does not mean the habits cease. Of course not. But my relationship to the habit is different. This makes all the difference in the world.
Self Observation is very difficult. The more you try, the more clearly you will see this. At present you should practice it not for results but to understand that you cannot observe yourselves. . . . When you try, the result will not be, in the true sense, self observation. But trying will strengthen your attention. (G.I. Gurdjieff. Views From The Real World, )
I am attention (consciousness), nothing else. The soul is only attention. As I am now, attention is very weak, damaged by all sorts of external influences. Mister Gurdjieff continued in the talk quoted above by saying, “Self observation is only possible after acquiring attention”
I can begin to notice my moods and how they shift. I can begin to notice my postures, how I sit, how I walk, my tone of voice, and my facial expressions. I can notice negative emotions. These provide me with a beginning practice in order to repair my attention-function.
If it is true that “I am attention”, then the development of attention is the development of the soul, and that is the task set forth for me upon taking a human body. It is why I am sent here to Earth, to develop as a soul through practical work on self.
Through will of attention, at first I can only observe with hindsight. That is, I will see that I was caught in a habitual thinking, emotional, or physical process and carried along in it without being conscious of it. I was identified with the habit and controlled by it. Judgment will follow. I will often be trapped by it and identified with it as well, thus carried rapidly into more unconscious habitual behavior. But there will be moments, soon after or long after, when I can observe what has happened to me“I snapped at him again when he ________ (fill in the blank).” And I can feel inside what this habit does to me and to my relationships. Thus, observation from hindsight begins to…
I must choose consciously to look, to see, and to suffer my own behavior towards self and others. This is suffering of one kind, and it is different from the mechanical suffering stemming from habitual behavior, unconscious and endless. Instead, this is conscious suffering. After a long time, attention will be strengthened and I can have brief moments of clarity in the moment of identification. This is different from observation in hindsight. Though I may not have the will to stop the behavior in that moment, I will see very clearly that I am once again caught in an old habit pattern which I now can begin… NOTEHindsight continued... NOTETake advantage of "visualization" and "hindsight" to undo unreflective panic response.
Finally, after much longer patient and honest self observation, there will be moments when I can observe with foresight. That is, in the moment of identification with a habitual pattern of behavior, I will recognize it by observation, will remember myself in that moment (find myself), and be able to change direction because I know where such behavior is headed, it is always… NOTEHindsight (Insight) Foresight
Eventually, after long practice, observation with foresight blooms into its full maturityin this mature stage of self observation, the moment the energy of an incoming impression enters the body there is awareness, an alert attention, and before the intellectual-emotional-complex can grab the energy and use it for its own agendas, attention is calmly focused on bodily sensation; I remember myself. Thus there is no interference with the incoming energy of impressions and the body is able to act in its higher function as an “energy…
It is by the grace of the Creator that such a thing is given to all of us. Very few learn how to use…
The intellectual-emotional-complex demands with urgency that I identify with it and then express its desire of the moment = whatever “i” is arising and crying for attention. It asks me to separate, invites and urges separation from the grounded consciousness which I am and in which I reside. It invites suffering. And I gladly, eagerly do its wishes.
The practice of self observation simply asks me to find myself (self remembering) and then manage the bodybe still, stay in place, and notice what is arising moment to moment in the human biological instrument, without interfering in any way with what is observed. The urge is to interfere of course. NOTE: Yes, there is this urge to interfere. But I do not even reflect for a moment how am I interfering. Period. If I observe my efforts to interfere I would see I do not know. It can only happen when I ain't looking. It's unconscious.
Self observation strips me naked so that I see myself exactly as I am, not as I wish to be, not as I pretend to be in front of others, not as I imagine myself to be, but exactly as I am. It is not a pretty sight.
This is where the beauty of the self observation practice becomes clearI cannot see too much too soon, I can only see as much as I wish to see at any given moment before my defense mechanisms, created over years and years of habit, shield me from myself.
So at some point in my life I am likely to ask the key question which unlocks the gate to the spiritual life“Is this all there is to life?” That question can eventually lead me to a real master, a spiritual practice, and to the deep desire to know myself.
Remember Heisenberg’s uncertainty principleThe act of observation changes what is observed. This is such a simple understanding of my situation, and the beauty of the tool I am given as my birthrightthe ability to self observe.
“Unnecessary thought” = any thinking which is not solving a technical problem or communicating with others, not related to what is happening in the momentwhen I walk, there is just walking, no thought necessary; when I exercise, there is just the movement of the body, no thinking necessary; when I eat, just eat; when I stand, just standlike that—unnecessary thought can simply become a trigger, an internal “reminding factor” to help me refocus the attention on keeping the body relaxed. In this way, thought does not catch the attention and carry it off, capture it and consume it. NOTE: Reminder in doing any task or work
Inappropriate emotion can simply become a trigger, an internal “reminding factor” to help me refocus the attention on keeping the body relaxed, so the emotion does not catch the attention and carry it off, capturing and consuming it.
If I travel down the same neural and emotional pathways , times or more, even an idiot such as me will begin to notice that I have been here before, and always with the same result! That is because habit repeats, thus it is predictable. One very clear and useful definition of insanity is this repeating the same action and expecting different results.
Seeing the patterns of my inner life, noticing how things repeat, sensing the boredom and monotony of such a second-hand life, a longing for what is real and true begins to arise in me. This longing comes from being. The being begins to stir and awaken just a little.
Truth is the direct experience of life as love. This insight is gained by non-judgmental observation of what is, exactly as it is, without the mind’s commentary (unnecessary thinking) or fear (inappropriate emotion) or tension (unnecessary tension) or reference to the past or future (habit), but simple, silent, relaxed equanimity, acceptance of what is, as it is.
We do not even recognize inspiration and intuition as real or of any value in the educational process. That is because they do not come from intellectual center, but are received from higher centers, from the Creator. Remember yourself weary Traveler.
The mind’s main terror is that there are things which it does not know how to think about. Thought equates its absence, the absence of thought, with loss of control, and to thought, loss of control = death. Thought equates thinking with survival, as it was programmed to do—it is a binary computer after all, and can only think according to its programs. It is thus terrified of losing control = not thinking.
Thought gains its dominance and control by a simple devicenot being observed.
It requires for its control that we do not pay attention to our lives. It requires us to act from old, stored, borrowed belief systems programmed into us by others, beliefs which it has never had to examine or think about at all; all of that work was done by others. To have to do this work itself would be fearful, might separate us from the herd which put those beliefs into us, and would require it going into unknown territory, which it fears.
Memory is lazy; it does not want to do the impossible task to which it is assigned by ignorant education. So it takes everything for granted and is highly selective. Otherwise it would have to think about everything. This way, it can run on automatic pilot and spend most of its time doing what it loves to do most--fantasize. The....
I have known some, especially in the university, who thought that if they gave a fine talk or wrote a long article for the journals, this made them men of action. The Indians knew better. Before a warrior went into battle he would not speak. He went into the sweat lodge with others; they drummed and sang and prayed. Then for days he went into solitude, preparing his heart for his death. When he came out, ready to ride, his woman handed him axe and bow. No word was spoken.
Every phenomenon arises from a field of energiesevery thought, every feeling, every movement of the body is the manifestation of a specific energy, and in the lopsided human being one energy is constantly swelling up to swamp the other. This endless pitching and tossing between mind, feeling, and body produces a fluctuating series of impulses, each of which deceptively asserts itself as “me”as one desire replaces another, there can be no continuity of intention, no true wish, only the chaotic pattern of contradiction in which we all live, in which the ego has the illusion of will power and independence. Gurdjieff called this “the terror of the situation.” (Peter Brook. “The Secret Dimension,” )
But it is this flaw around which my psychology is constructed, and it rules the inner world by remaining invisible. What is more, and here is the keyI am addicted to my flaw! I believe in it and give my life to it. It is this which controls the intellectual-emotional-complex. It is this which captures and consumes attention. It is this which must be continuously fed. I like “petty tyrant” because that is exactly what it is and how it behaves. This was the term used often in shamanistic traditions. But for our purposes I prefer to call it “the blind spot” because this so simply and accurately describes its action upon my consciousnessit feeds upon available energy within, but is constructed in such a way as to be all but invisible to me in ordinary life.
Only by the most patient and honest self observation without judgment, over a long period of time, will a person gain the clarity, honesty, and strength necessary to see one’s own blind spot.
The advantage which I have over the blind spot is that such actions are totally predictable, and once I have seen them , times (or more—I am a slow learner), I can recognize them by their first appearance and know exactly where they will lead me—every time. Therefore, I can be ready for it before it ever arises by keeping attention focused on the body, and remaining present in a relaxed body, no matter what I am doing or what is going on around mefind myself, manage the body.
Relaxed body = honest body. The attention can’t be captured if it is in the right place = focused on bodily sensation and relaxing the body, no matter the action which has taken place (jealousy, envy, greed, lust, sorrow, a second piece of pie, etc.).
The second half of the feeding cycle follows the first half automatically, habitually, thus predictablyit is judgment of the action (which is identification). I am jealous, envious, lustful, angry, hateful, eat too much, say negative things, gossip, etc. Following that immediately is judgment of the action = the second half of the cycle. First the action, then the reaction—this is the law (Newton’s third law of motionFor every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.) When I try to change the action I observe in myself, I have only made one-half an observation; I have not completely observed the process I am trying to change. I have only seen one-half of that process, and based on incomplete information or observation, I am making a decision which endangers me and places my Work in jeopardy, because I know too little about what is good for me...
and I do not understand in what a delicate balance things are in my body. If I change one thing, everything changes and I may be left in a worse condition than when I started.
the judgment of the habit is the habit. The habit depends upon the judgment of it as bad, no good, in order to derive its power and strength. The judgment of the habit is the other half of the habit. The habit is not drinking, sugar, pornography, gossip—whatever I have observed—the habit is drinking (in this case) and judging myself for drinking = whole cycle, full circle, degrees. This full cycle keeps the self in its place, in lineself-hatred in my case. This is the underlying force behind judging what I observe. The ego depends upon me not being OK, upon having problems, upon being broken and then fixing the problem, repairing the damage. The ego = problem-and-fixing-the-problem. If there were no problems, thus nothing to fix, there would be no ego. Simple.
What gets fed grows stronger, this is the law.
Thus, the feeding cycle feeds attention and my inner attention (which is soul) grows stronger, able to focus for longer and longer periods of time without being caught.
Inner attention can only grow stronger if it is properly fed on a daily basis; thus the importance of the sitting practice—this gives me a half-hour uninterrupted, without distraction, to practice keeping the attention grounded and at home.
Every unnecessary thought, inappropriate emotion, and unnecessary tension is acting in the service of my blind spot and will inevitably and predictably lead to that blind spot and it will devour the attention once it has captured it. Thereforeobserve unnecessary thought, inappropriate emotion, and unnecessary tension in the body. Relax the body = honest body. Don’t judge, condemn, or criticize, just observe. Either I eat the bear, or the bear eats me.
Verify for yourself or continue to be a slave to borrowed knowledge, other people’s opinions and your own blind spot.
The effort to change what is observed is wasted energy—it never changes. It is habitual, mechanical, and responds to the effort to change it with redoubled efforts to capture and consume. Instead, what may be changed, slowly, slowly and patiently with accumulation of understanding via observation, is my relationship to what is observed—that is, I am not quite so easily identified with the dramas...
The effort to change what is observed is the result of judgment. Period.
Also, judgment is inevitably accompanied by unnecessary thinking. Therefore unnecessary thinking is a dead give-away that the labyrinth is casting its net. It is an instantaneous feedback mechanism. Thus, the basic rule of self observation is to observe unnecessary thinking. Finally, judgment is inevitably accompanied by unnecessary tension in the body. Thus, the basic rule of self observation is to observe unnecessary tension in the
No effort towards becoming more conscious, no matter how small, is ever wasted. This is a law of the Work. Every time I observe, something conscious (attention) in me is being fed, thus it grows, homeopathically, one grain of observation at a time. Nothing conscious is ever wasted. That is the law. I am not interested in “grand.” I am interested in steady, patient, careful, law-conformable efforts to “know myself.” This is our hope for freedom. Hope placed in the mind is madness. Hope placed in the emotions is sorrow and suffering. Hope placed in self observation is strength and wisdom It produces more consciousness because it feeds attention. Thus, I mature.
If, according to my nature, my response to the threat of pain is rage, then the accompanying action is fight. If, according to my nature, my response is terror, then the accompanying action is flight. Thus, biologists have labeled the survival instinct the “fight-flight syndrome” Instinctive center is closely aligned with moving center. Note: fight or flee
To surrender the survival instinct to the Work practice, to “turn the other cheek,” is a very high practice indeed, called in the shamanic traditions “the Warrior’s Maneuver.” This is a rational response to pain or the threat of pain. Instinct is not rational.
But the person of the Work has a choice as to whether I react to the surge of the survival instinct. I have a choice whether I act according to its urgent commandFight or flee! I can choose to find myself, manage my body, observe without reacting, without judgment, without changing anything, and keep the body relaxed when the adrenaline surge is sent down the central nervous system, preparing the body to fight or flee.
So in one family, the default mood may be anger, another depression, another pollyannic happiness, another drug addiction, another abuse, another emotional withdrawal—absence both physical and emotional, abandonment, like that. The list goes on. Emotion is energy in the body, measuring the amount of danger or love. Period. What I do with it depends upon two factors) my received and constructed paradigm (= mental-emotional “construct”)—that is, my conditioning and programming, which becomes a default position; or ) free attention of an awake and conscious person. If I am awake and conscious, then I am able to choose from aim. If I am an ordinary person, driven by unconscious habit, then my “default mechanism,” my habitual mood-choices, will choose for me, the habit will speak for me in my name and using my voice, the habit will act for me, and I will be left to pay the consequences of such (sometimes life-changing) choices, sometimes paying for the rest of my life for a choice made by a mechanical, unconscious, habitual entity in the human biological instrument, which acts without reason or consciousness, only by habit.
You Don’t Know What Love Is On the way to the picnic I stop to buy an apple pie and the big bag of corn chips, my favorites. We get there and drink beer, grill burgers and have a good time. Just to show what a good guy I am, I leave them the rest of the apple pie but I wrap and fold the corn chips carefully and place them next to our cooler so they will come home with us. They are my favorites. The next day I go to the kitchen for corn chips but they are nowhere to be found; I look everywhere and then I go in the laundry room where she is doing the wash and I ask her, Where are the corn chips? I left them there to be nice, she says, and that is how the fight starts. It goes on and on, but it ends the way they always endshe is in tears and when I try to comfort her by saying I love her, she says, You don’t love me; you don’t know what love is. And I am thinking, not out loud of course, That’s a goddamn lie, I love those corn chips. (Red Hawk. Wreckage, ) NOTEinspiring humor poem
Nothing can remain the same in me once I have seen the fact of my “many i’s” and see how that works in me.
Now real suffering—voluntary suffering—begins in earnest within me“voluntary” because no human being can make me observe myself, no one. There must develop within me what the Work calls “observing-I” which wishes to see. And as it is remembered and utilized by the inner being more, it begins to strengthen and fuse with the inner being; it becomes more and more active through the power of suffering—pain is the great motivator. More and more “i’s” join forces with this “observing-I”, they begin to coalesce and crystallize around it the way particles gather around a charge. And thus, through years of practice, forgetting for hours or days to observe, resisting meditating for fifteen or thirty minutes in the morning, only now and then remembering my Work, this “observing-I” grows stronger and more active.
Slowly, slowly its aim—to see myself as I am—becomes more active, begins to have real strength and force in me.
The suffering produced by the practice actually builds and develops something in me which the Work calls conscience.*
But from “voluntary suffering,” the seed of real conscience may spring.result of very patient and slow and careful observation over many years.
Once that mustard seed is activated, once real conscience is fed and begins to develop, only then will I learn what true voluntary suffering is. Because the “i’s” which I love and identify with (= I am that) will not go away. Just so long as I choose to believe in them and identify with them, they will have power over me.
The mature practitioner simply does not give these “i’s” the authority, to speak for me, to choose for me, to act for me. I give my power to aim instead. I choose to live from aim, not from the agenda of small “i’s”
And I suffer because I see over and over and over and over just how easily I am taken by the agenda of small “i’s”. I see very clearly that I refuse to stop whoring and drinking (an example, not a fact) never mind the cost to myself, my relationships, or my lifeI refuse.
And because there is now in me a mustard seed of conscience—not belief systems borrowed from others, but something which is all my own because I have paid for it—now I suffer most intensely, now I suffer in a whole new way and on a whole new level. And this suffering feeds conscience. This is what the ordinary man can never understand.
Only desperate people, who have suffered “the terror of the situation” for years and years, would be driven to such lengths that they surrendered all that they had to the Creator, in return for this mustard seed, this “pearl of great price.” Do you understand? Do I dare to see how every moment I am making a decision to be ruled by small, selfish, unconscious “i’s” and am a slave to their wishes? Do I dare to see how my life is being stolen from me for chump-change, for drinking and whoring (which means any and all of the small “i’s” agendas)?
Can I see in myself the true “terror of my situation”? Try to observe in yourself the entire cycle of a single “i”—not only the acting out of its agenda, but the resulting judgment about that action, and the feelings about self which resulted as well; that is, the entire “cycle-of-the-i” not just one half, which is the action, but the other half too, which is the reaction and judgment and feeling about myself. Verify for yourself what is true about your inner state. Try to observe yourself without judgment or changing what is observed. When I am able to be aware of an “i” in me and what it is doing, greed and the “i” which is greedy, this is a moment of real self remembering and self observation.
The effort to change what is observed is the result of identification with what is observed, believing in it, giving it power, feeling “helpless” to do otherwise NOTEA very strong impression.
Thus, one part of me, one small ‘i’ in me, judges another small ‘i’ and says that this ‘i’ must be stopped and ‘i’ will stop it. The result? Civil war, a self divided, and the effort to change what is observed merely serves to further empower that which is observed and which “I” am making effort to change. Result? No change, habitual repetition of act—judgment of act—effort to change act—resulting guilt and condemnation when it does not change—further repetition of act. It is a cycle. It repeats. It can be predicted, because it is habitual. All habits are “i’s”.
the effort to change what is observed merely serves to further empower that which is observed and which “I” am making effort to change. Result? No change, habitual repetition of act—judgment of act—effort to change act—resulting guilt and condemnation when it does not change—further repetition of act. It is a cycle. It repeats. It can be predicted, because it is habitual. All habits are “i’s”. NOTETrying to change backfiring
The next day several “i’s” with no trust, fear-based and self hating, were eager to exploit the available energy. But I was willing to hold to my aim, so I sat down and began. NOTEConsciously serving the aim or wish or will
Learn to endure momentary displeasures for the sake of the Work. . . . Make friends with the denying force. . . . If we are doubtful as to which course to follow, we should follow the line of most resistance.” (E.J. Gold. The Joy of Sacrifice, , )
As the being attempts to grow and mature, to advance, it will meet with lawful resistance within. It cannot be otherwise. The greater the effort, the greater the inner resistance.
I cannot simply meet resistance head on with an opposing force.Between two opposing forces, I must find a way to reconcile them. A third force must arise in me. Self observation and the accompanying self remembering provide such a reconciling force in me.
They allow me to stand between two opposing forces, between the “yes” and the “no” in me, without identifying with either one.
I am able to move neither toward one nor away from the other. This is known in Buddhist tradition as “equanimity.” That is the ability to hold two opposing positions inside equally without distress or yielding in either direction. This is the essence of the Work.
I am a mass of contradictory “i’s” within, many opposed to one another, each vying for control of the organism in order to accomplish its own selfish aims.
So, don’t be fooled by resistance to Work. It is as inevitable as the shadow which follows the body. It is lawful and necessary. No development may be gained without it. In fact, resistance becomes a very useful guide to signal me when I am on a right path.
The ego will find any self observation reprehensible and resist it with great force. The more one uncovers the workings of various “i’s” the more inner resistance there will be. They depend for their survival upon my remaining unconscious and unaware.
As one advances in this Work and gains greater insight and understanding, resistance does not diminish, it grows accordingly. The greater the inner resistance, the more assuredly I am on a right path and have uncovered something which is true.
Simply observe with equanimity and a relaxed body. When water meets with resistance, it merely passes around, over, or under. It yields in order to continue to move. Martial arts use the same idea, to move with, not against, the force which is coming towards me and to not tense the body but stay relaxed in the face of opposition. Resistance is lawful. Use it, don’t fight it. NOTE: Martial Arts
Without self importance we are invulnerable” (Carlos Castaneda. Tales of Power. New YorkSimon and Schuster, ).
It is how the labyrinth prevents me from hearing and utilizing real help; it is how the labyrinth prevents me from seeing myself as I am, thus preserving intact its mechanism for “capture and consume.” It has a vested interest in me not understanding what is being laid out here, and it knows this information is not in its best interest.
But it is mechanical = habitual, unconscious. You need not be. That is our advantage over it. I can learn to observe the intellectual-emotional-complex at work because it is predictable; it acts the same way every time. And simply by seeing, I can become free, not changing anything except my relationship with the labyrinth. Not changing the labyrinth at all, but my relationship to it = non-identification.
Efforts to keep the body relaxed seem very useful and productive. Such efforts are called in Zen “effortless effort,” because it is not muscular “effort” to relax, but an effort of inner observation, bodily awareness, and understanding.
This is also what is known in certain traditions, such as Zen, as “effortless effort”to become actively-passive inside.
Always in this Work, the great law isPay attention; go slow; be still. There is no need to rush. Work cannot be rushed. It requires great patience, and this patience will develop in me as I observe. What is needed and wanted in me will arise as it is needed; help will come from on High, from that which observes me. I simply have to trust the process as it unfolds in me. Slow is sure and safe. NOTE: Help
Most of us manage to remain functionally insane. But the suffering of this madness is too great for most of us to bear, even with the buffer system, so we self-medicate in order to bear the suffering of our mental illness. Traditionally we use money, sex, power, fame, or drugs to distract us from the pain of our condition and numb us to the reality of our inner state. It is more than any of us can bear. The law of the Work for entering the “Corridor of Madness”* isThe only way out is through. I must pass through my madness. Self observation and self remembering are the ways to safely traverse the Corridor.
Simply find yourself and observe your contradictions without judgment or trying to change things. Eventually, as I mature in this Work, change will arise from what is observed. Only as I mature can change occur, and it will arise as grace from the practice of self observation. I will see what to do and how to do it. I will see when struggle is necessary and what to struggle for. No need to struggle against anything; I will see what to struggle for and that will slowly take the place of what is no longer necessary.
We are so conditioned to believe that when we see a problem we must immediately “fix” it, that one of the most difficult things to do in this Work is to observe without interference, neither judging nor changing what is observed.
But because the human biological instrument is created by a wise, kind, and benevolent intelligence, it comes with a single operating toolself observation. I am a hopeless idiot and yet, even I have learned slowly how to use this tool. You can too. We are made so that anyone not permanently and organically broken and ruined, or clinically insane, can recover their sanity by slow and patient work on self.
There is in every single one of us, even the very worst among us, basic goodness; it is the very nature of the being. We come into this incarnation as humans with it and it resides latent and waiting to emerge from its cover, needing only the organic invitation to emerge.
Inner relaxation is absence of identification, a passively-active non-interference with what is observed.
The only thing which is required of me, my place in the scheme of creation, is that I see and feel my inner state as it is, without judgment or trying to change what is observed.
Seeing comes from intellectual center, and is one of its true and basic functions. In order to self remember, to find myself, place attention on bodily sensation and observe my contradictions without identification, the intellect is required. The intellect remembers and directs the attention, places it and holds it. Seeing is one of its functions and when it does this, it is in its place. It must be trained to know its place. Only then can it serve efficiently. As it is now, it is out of its place, it wastes enormous amounts of energy in unnecessary thinking. It steals the energy which is necessary for self observation in order to maintain its flow of constant chatter and judgment. All that is required of it is that it see without interference. NOTE: Seeing
When attention is placed on seeing my own contradictions, the shock of this will cause me to suffer. This is voluntary suffering and it can be intense. I simply have to stand in it and not distract myself with money, sex, power, fame and drugs. The only way out is through. Feeling this suffering is one of the true functions of emotional center and allows it to learn its proper, lawful place in the bodily scheme of energy transformation. The energy of this suffering from feeling is transformed into a higher and finer energy which can be utilized by the body for self observation. NOTE: The transformed energy through self observation will act as strength for further observation.
From seeing, intention arises in the intellectual center. By itself intention cannot do, but it serves to focus the intellect and awaken its organic intelligence.
From feeling, wish* arises in the emotional center. By itself wish cannot do, but it serves to focus the emotions and awaken what is called “feeling-attention.”
My task is to not interfere, not try to “fix,” not judge. Simple to understand, difficult to accomplish. Much effort is needed to arrive at the “effortless effort”
I must, of my own accord, by my own choice begin to observe myself without judgment. And once I do so, I will begin to suffer in a new way. And it is this suffering in me which will create a new organ within, which is known in this Work as conscience.
Now I am able to take upon myself, voluntarily, some of the suffering of the Creator, to relieve the Creator of some of Its burden. I am able to “pick up my own cross and carry it,” as Matthew : suggests.
To carry your own cross is joy, but not joy as we know it.
When there is pleasure, I become automatic, maintaining the status quo. But when pain enters, I am constructed in such a way that I move away from pain. Suffering motivates me to Work, to make effort, to see more in order to find my way through suffering to pleasure.
I see what I am. I do not pretend to be otherwise.
I pay with voluntary suffering, and am rewarded with grace. It is moment to moment.
Again, only when I am overwhelmed, when I cannot face the situation, can something entirely new appear that helps me to understand what is really needed.
What I call “thinking” is merely the mind’s memory function examining its contents, which is the past stored as memory. And the only aim of memory is to repeat its contents and maintain its patterns. It only has one functionto think. It cannot do anything else. So naturally it seeks to convince me that thinking is the most important thing I can do and that if I don’t think about everything all the time, I will die.
So in order to move outside the box, I must begin to comprehend the universe in a new way, not through the intellectual center’s activity. The intellectual center must become passive, alert, receptive; it must remain in the mode of “I don’t know,” organically ignorant. This is the awakening of intelligence. It sounds contradictory, paradoxicalin order for real intelligence to awaken in me, the intellect must become ignorant. See if you can intuitively understand what this might mean. Faithful self observation over a long period of time will bring me to the state of “I don’t know.” Only then can real intelligence operate. Before then, all that I know, all that is stored in memory as knowledge, blocks the operation of intelligence.
When the mind is quiet and receptive—it cannot be receptive as long as it believes it knows and chatters all the time— then the mode of apprehension of reality outside the box is direct experience; the mode of comprehension outside the box is intuition, and the mode of expression outside the box is inspiration. These are the modes of real intelligence. The right hemisphere is merely the receiver which, when tuned to higher frequencies, receives the input from higher centers. Quiet mind and peaceful heart together, acting as one in harmony, receive wisdom. To do so, what is required of me is “not doing.” That is, there must be a surrender of random, mechanical thought in the intellectual center...
Real intelligence is the awakening of the clear channel between heart/mind and higher centers so that I can receive wisdom. It does not come from me, but is received by me. Wisdom is available to all, but at a pricethe price is the surrender of all that I think I know and the leap into the abyss, into the unknown. This is not logical. Logic has taken me this far and it can go no further. Logic will argue that only it can lead me in the right direction, towards what is logical. This is logical, but not intelligent. If logic could solve the problems of humanity, it would have done so many thousands of years ago.
Thinking can’t solve the problem of my life because thinking is the problem. But it does expose the problem. The mind is active because it has been asked to do the impossiblebe the master and be in control. Impossible task. Thus it sits behind the curtains of Oz and operates a smoke screen of continuous thought which creates the illusion that I am in control of my life and of reality. I can go about my life as an habitual, mechanical, unconscious, sleeping walking-around robot, a proper mammal who fits into the herd, some herd, somewhere. I can continue to do the same things in the same way and not have to think for myself.
We really do not recognize the fact that we have no choice. We are totally enslaved by the neurotic mindevery breath, every word out of our mouths, every gesture. We couldn’t be free if our lives, if our children’s lives, depended upon it. We could not. We have no options—we can’t be free. We can’t make the conscious choice. We can’t make a free gesture. When we get that, the horror and disgust is so overwhelming that we will be forced to choose the Work mind.
We’re forced to see how absolutely, completely choiceless we are when we are dominated by our psychology, and the shock of that is what propels us into choosing the Work mind . . . (Lee Lozowick. InYoung, As It Is, )
And the contrast between what is true and what I am being told by the intellectual-emotional-complex and manifesting in my daily behavior is the source of real suffering.
Direct experience becomes my teacher, not the accumulation of belief systems, borrowed knowledge, and the experience of others which are stored in the memory as the self, which I believe in, and which I have given my life to without question.
Conventional wisdom holds that underneath a bully is a coward trying to keep others from discovering his true identity. Symbolically, the Coward within must stand up to being bullied by his own inner fears, which is the path to empowerment through these two archetypes. - myss.com
Jesus is trying to help us in these clear messages. His message is that it is in our best interests that we do NOT yield to judgement thoughts, for if we do, we will identify as a body, which means our mind is sick.
The implication is clear: if we want to vanquish and be free from the demonic aspect of wetiko, we need to find and connect with our Angel, the sooner the better.--Paul Levy
If you let your mind 1) harbor attack thoughts, 2) yield to judgement, or3) make plans against uncertainties to come, you have again misplaced yourself and made a body identity which will attack the body, for the mind is sick.
The real labour is to remember, to attend. In fact, to come awake. Still more, to remain awake.--C.S. Lewis
A concentrated mind and a sitting body make for better prayer than a kneeling body and a mind half asleep.--C. S. Lewis
As Leonardo Da Vinci says, “Time stays long enough for anyone who will use it.” So what this means is that time can – paradoxically – do two things – it can either rush past without us even seeing it go and leave us feeling cheated, or it can somehow ‘stay’ for us, and reveal an unexpected depth or interiority. Thus the present, as C.S. Lewis writes, “…is the point at which time touches eternity.” The crucial point is therefore whether we are in the present – or whether we are, like deluded fools, banking on this illusory store of linear time that we have in the future!
Whenever trouble or difficulty comes our way we are panicked into handing over responsibility to the ‘machine which is the thinking mind’, and the thinking mind (as we have said) operates purely within the realm of negative freedom.
Although we may hate ourselves, at the same time we find our self-hatred a kind of occupation. In spite of the fact that we may dislike what we are and find that self-condemnation painful, still we cannot give it up completely. If we begin to give up our self-criticism, then we may feel that we are losing our occupation, as though someone were taking away our job.– Chogyam Trungpa
One must use one's whole body to write. If there is tension anywhere, then the expression will be limited, and so a whole-body focus needs to be maintained
Do nothing with your feelings. Do not name them... if the feeling is not named as emotion, the past, can it live as moment, or is the emotion necessary as time to continue in time? Find out.
A neurosis is truly removed only when it has removed the false attitude of the ego. We do not cure it - it cures us. A man is ill, but the illness is nature's attempt to heal him. From the illness itself we can learn so much for our recovery, and what the neurotic flings away as absolutely worthless contains the true gold we should never have found elsewhere.--Paul Levy
We need to learn not how to get rid of our neurosis, but how to carry and bear it so that it can reveal its deeper meaning. Our neurosis is teaching us something about ourselves that we clearly haven’t been able to learn in any other way. Trying to get rid of our neurosis is analogous to attacking a fever in the belief that it is the noxious agent, rather than recognizing that the fever is an expression of the process of healing that is underway. --Paul Levy
When I say let go of the ego, I don’t mean “get rid” of the ego, I just mean let go of fueling it. Let the brain have its ego structure, you don’t have to be lost in identification with it, just let it be and it won’t have any negative influence on your being.
All you really need to do is to make a choice to not “identify” with negativity of any form, at-least for a while until the intensity of negative momentum ebbs away in you. Once there is no longer a strong momentum of negativity in your being, you can focus on some contrasts or negativities on the outside without it influencing your vibration. In this state of being you can truly bring a positive solution or healing to any negative situation that you bring focus to. First it’s important to be free of negativity within, before you can even think about alleviating negativity in your surroundings (in the world). If you are waiting for the outside to change before you can be free of your negative thoughts, it will be an eternal wait. You have to let go of the negativity within irrespective of the situation on the outside, by letting go of your belief and identification with it. Your inner state of being is what gets reflected on the outside, so stop trying to fix the outside and allow yourself to harmonize internally by letting of identification with negativity within yourself. The security that you seek comes automatically when you stop identifying with the insecurities of the mind and allow yourself to follow your joy, on a moment to moment basis (to move to a less resistant state is what moving towards joy really is).
There is nothing wrong with feeling bad, it’s just natural to feel bad because we are sensitive beings. To try to suppress these “bad feelings” is unnatural, and is done either out of fear or out of some external conditioning. “Feeling good” is just one experience, it’s not everything, it’s not a higher state. Being human, being life-energy, includes feeling good and feeling bad, the light and dark. The problem is with “imbalance”, when you suppress bad feelings, or try to cling to good feelings, you create imbalance and this imbalance gathers momentum, and this momentum is what becomes disturbing.
How can mankind save itself from destroying itself by this discrepancy between intellectual-technical overmaturity and emotional backwardness?--Erich Fromm
"If one does not know that everything has it's time and want to force things then indeed we will never succeed in being concentrated nor art of loving"--Erich Fromm
It’s a great relief to know that you don’t have to constantly keep your attention on your desires to manifest them because the universal consciousness is doing this job for you. You just have to let the difficulty or negativity or ego-mind inner movements be processed or digested.
I explained to her that she needed this energy if her own transformation was to be anything more than running away from the idea that “ this isn’t it . ” I told her to think of the Mandala work as simply learning to release the power of just a single story daily , by not giving herself over to it . I pointed out that , by so doing , each day she could return from her job a little less poisoned and with a little more energy , feeling a little more alive . I told her that she did not have to think about changing anything in her life except her own Self - avoidance . I suggested that at the end of a year , the incremental increase in her energy would cumulatively become a significant shift in where , in herself , she lived her life from . As a result she would naturally begin to attract new potentials and opportunities for her life . She would hardly have to make a choice ; she would automatically take the right steps . And that is exactly what happened . She grew stronger and more confident in herself and naturally began to follow her heart . She discovered that when she stopped telling herself stories about having no time , she did have time after all , and she began to take dance classes . Within two years she had shifted to a part - time teaching position and had begun a new career as a dance and movement instructor , something she truly feels stimulated by and is grateful to be doing .
Take up an activity that’s relaxing to your being, go out for a walk, go on a drive, hit the treadmill, read a positive book, watch something entertaining, [enter your activity] etc your brain may not feel in the mood for a positive activity because of its craving for negative neuropeptides, but when you consciously shift into a positive activity it causes your brain to have no choice but to plug into positive signals soon enough.
The only way to break free from the cycle of undesired realities is to make a conscious choice of not identifying with negative thinking even when you are in the midst of an undesired reality. This requires a conscious commitment to staying dis-identified with negative thinking, which may not be too easy initially because till now you were in the habit of dwelling on negative thoughts in response to your undesired reality.
It takes a conscious human being to break this cycle by consciously changing the inner-behaviour towards his own automatic negativity of the mind.
The truth is that the end-result is completely attracted by the “means” that you are using to get there. So it’s not possible to have an end-result of joy when the means is “joyless”, it’s not possible to attract a secure reality when the means is rooted in “insecurity”, it’s not possible to have an end-result of success when the means is full of struggle. Whenever you take an action, try to sense what’s the underlying vibration that is motivating the action – does it feel motivated by joy, excitement, enthusiasm and passion or is it motivated by fear, lack, anxiety, competition and servility, the vibration of the action will define the reality that it’s attracting.
What if you lived every day of your life aligned with your comfort? You would become a magnet that attracts comfort constantly, and new vistas will open up for you that allow you to keep indulging in the vibration of comfort and ease. This is what success feels like.
It’s a great relief to know that you don’t have to constantly keep your attention on your desires to manifest them because the universal consciousness is doing this job for you. All you need to do is change inner-behaviour towards negative thoughts/negativity so that you don’t create an opposite/resistive movement to the flow of life – life will easily manifest your desired realities at the right moments at the best interest of evryone around you. Be gentle and patient with your difficulties.
We usually have 15 waking hours in our day (given that most people tend to sleep for at-least 8 hours) and this limitation in time entails that you can’t have unlimited options of involvement. So what you prioritize defines how you experience these hours and how much these hours bring well-being into your life. If you start your morning in a hasty daze, end up in the office driving in a frenzy, work in a state of disharmony, eat unconsciously and then spend the evening getting drunk to forget the whole day – you’ve basically prioritized a hectic lifestyle over a lifestyle of well-being. And overtime this lifestyle starts eating up into your health, relationships and creative expression, leaving you feeling burnt out – usually the compensation most people undertake is to fix a vacation for a week, which is usually just as hectic (if not more), after which they get back to the rigor of their hectic lifestyle.
Every moment you have the opportunity to make a conscious choice in the direction of your well-being. It could be as simple as taking 10 minutes to center yourself by pausing in your work, and just sitting in a state of relaxed awareness, regaining your composure and working at a more relaxed pace. It may seem as if the outside world is putting pressure on you, but the truth is that you are the one who is putting pressure on yourself and the outside world is simply reflecting your mindset.
Don’t start your day in a frenzy – The way you start your day usually defines the tone of at-least the next 8 hours, if not the whole day. If you start your day in a forced frenzy, you’ve already exhausted most of your limited energy for the day. The best way to start a day is in a slow paced manner, allowing the body to adjust to the waking state.
Biologically, all your body’s functions are in a state of lowest efficiency first thing in the morning – the body temperature is low, muscles are cold, lungs are functioning at a much lower efficiency, your body is in the process of detoxing and there is a lower energy in your body since it’s been 10 hours from your last meal. It takes a while before the body adjusts to the waking hours. Be easy on yourself in the morning, and give yourself at-least 30 minutes of relaxed time before getting involved in activities.
Feed positive data into your brain – By its very design the brain, being a neural network, keeps rotating the data you expose it to for a few minutes, if not a few hours. So it’s very important to not feed it negative data first thing in the morning, else you just end up setting a negative tone for the day, especially when there is already a negative momentum running in your brain. If it’s not a necessity, avoid reading the newspaper or watching the news first thing in the morning, you are very likely to read or see something negative that gets stuck in your brain. The better use of your time should be to enjoy a brisk jog or a walk, or workout, which defines that your bodily well-being is your priority and life responds to this focus by ensuring your good health. It’s also a huge advantage to listen to, or read, some positive information for a few minutes in the morning, which can start a cycle of positive thinking in your brain.
Your brain has a limited capacity for output and if you expend it on activities that are not of useful value, you are simply wasting your energy and thus not prioritizing your well-being. The brain naturally enjoys creative expression in work and when it’s not cluttered with useless data, it can focus better on the creative expression alone. A lot of people start their work hours lost in distractions rather than allowing a clear focus on expending their energy towards creative expression. As a human being, it’s natural for you to be drawn towards a creative expression, as a part of your natural makeup, and there is a joy when you produce quality work; it feels highly fulfilling in your being. Whatever be your current work situation, find a way to reduce your distractions and focus on using your working hours to be a channel of creative expression.
Basically, when you start taking the time to be with yourself (without distractions), to get a sense of your state of being, and listening to your heart, you start becoming more conscious of your life, which allows you the invitation to make a conscious choice towards letting go of patterns that are no longer in harmony with your well-being and thus become receptive to inspirations that help you create a positive reality.
Express appreciation . Expressing appreciation is perhaps the most important step . Even if you don’t “ like ” the experience you are having , do whatever possible ( “ fake it until you make it ” ) to express appreciation to your Infinite I for the experience – and especially thanks and appreciation to the person , place , or thing that was causing you the discomfort . After all , your Infinite I has just given you the gift of showing you where you assigned power “ out there ” in the past , and that’s worthy of some appreciation ; and the people , places , or things that caused your discomfort have given you the gift of expertly playing a role in your holographic movie to assist you in your process of becoming a butterfly – definitely worthy of appreciation. I realize this may be difficult in the beginning ; but in fact , you may soon be wanting other people , places , or things who make you feel less than totally joyful to show up in your holograms as much and as often as they can , just so you can see where you've assigned power " out there " and " reclaim " it .
That’s not what happiness is, it’s not a gift that you get by acquiring something, happiness is the very vibration of your being – it’s not something you achieve, it’s something which you are. It’s the force of ego that prevents you from touching base with your natural vibration of wholeness. It’s not about getting rid of the ego, altogether, it’s about deconstructing its “pull” or force, so that it does not have a disturbing influence on your being. The ego structure is necessary for physical purposes, and has a practical value in the brain, and it will always be there. What’s required is to dissolve its force in you so that you are not a prisoner to the ego. When I say let go of the ego, I don’t mean “get rid” of the ego, I just mean let go of fueling it. Let the brain have its ego structure, you don’t have to be lost in identification with it, just let it be and it won’t have any negative influence on your being.
A lot of people confuse action with struggle. Action can come from a place of inspiration and alignment, or it can come from a place of struggle – both of these have totally different dynamics and experience. Struggle never feels good to the body, and it also indicates a lack of alignment with the life-stream. To force yourself out of your comfort zone feels like a struggle to the body because it does not feel aligned for it. If you simply keep following your ease and joy, you always get moved towards your desired realities – there is no need for struggle. Struggle is only needed for people who are disconnected with themselves and hence disconnected with their life-stream. The juice of physicality is not struggle, the juice of physicality is the wholeness of being aligned.
When you start letting go of the “me” force, you will automatically start resting in the space of being. This space of being will become more and more powerful as the personal will, or the “me” energy, starts dissolving. You will notice that in the absence of “me” there is always happiness, because who you really are is joy itself. You will experience the joy of life every moment, irrespective of the situation you are in.
There is a difference between “trying” to find peace and being at peace with life. When you are at peace with life you are also at peace with not being peaceful – that’s the paradox, once you get this you will see how true it is.
School Of Life YT Channel: This is the right place for people who like to listen to clean-cut made messages from various philosophers and gentle self-help information. And the highlight is the way the author Alain De Botton presents the messages through his pleasant voice and style. This will also inspire you to read books or blogs with such passion and joy rather than as a mere escape.
SmartHistory YT Channel: There are multiple voices of narration in this channel. Most of the videos have a combination of a male and a female voice. They are showing and describing the painting works of great painters in the past in a pleasant way. The way they express or narrate the painting works is kind of a dance of voices syncing together.
Kenny – there is no “should”. How “do” you feel in this situation? Start with that. That is what is natural to you in this moment. Forget about forgiveness. It is over-rated. If forgiveness emerges spontaneously within your experience it can be a beautiful thing. Trying to forgive is like forcing yourself to smile when you are unhappy – it just isn’t the same. Instead of asking why the people around you are behaving the way they are, ask yourself this question instead: why are you choosing to remain in such a toxic environment? I do not know the details of your circumstances. Maybe you have certain financial constraints, maybe your opportunities to find other employment are limited. But whatever the circumstances may be, try and identify what inner mechanics are keeping you invested in this apparently disharmonious environment. People misunderstand forgiveness. To many the act of “forgiving” makes them feel somehow benevolent or noble. To forgive someone or something feels like we are giving them our “permission”. Yet, forgiveness has very little to do with the other person and everything to do with you. When you forgive someone, you are setting them free of your emotional expectation and in the process are releasing that imbalance within yourself. People who tend to persist in situations that are clearly disharmonious with their own nature do so quite deliberately, even though unconsciously. They are in a sense ‘addicted’ to the negativity that the situation brings out within them. If you find yourself surrounded by people who are constantly undermining you and putting you down, inquire into why you feel like you need these people around you. What is it that prevents you from walking away? Walking away from a situation that is disharmonious and not beneficial is the simplest thing to do. There is no “how” to it. You simply get up and you start walking. Yet, the mind has infinite (and often creative) rationalizations for why we need to stay. The “principle of the matter” is a good one, “not giving up” is another, “doing it for the greater good or for others” is often used as well. But regardless, of the rationalization you come up with, the result is ultimately the same, you choose to remain in disharmony. Choosing disharmony or conflict serves a deeper purpose of course. It helps accentuate and magnifies all our imbalances and makes them drastically obvious to us. And so all the discomfort, pain and negativity you are experiencing is really pointing to those aspects of yourself that are in need of calibration. Instead of seeking to forgive these people, see them for the valuable service they are satisfying in your life. Pain, misery, humiliation are often our greatest teachers. When you no longer feel the pull of your ego’s insecurities and need for reassurance, the situation itself will either transform favorably, or it will just cease to be that dramatic or interesting. When you spontaneously begin to lose all interest in the politics and pettiness surrounding you, and as your mind gradually ceases to sensationalize it, you will naturally know what to do. At that point, you will either respond in a fresh and transformative way, or you will simple walk away without hesitation. In the end, the best way to describe the attitude of forgiveness is, “Don’t worry about it, its not a big deal.”
What Sen calls “Allowing” is in a sense all about forgiveness. When you “allow” your experience and your conditioning, what you are really doing is responding with tolerance, compassion and understanding ( in other words, forgiving). As I mentioned, your ego is a construct of not only your own personal conditioning but also that of your parents, your ancestors, your nation, your race, your gender and your species. When you adopt an attitude of gentle patience and allow these conditionings to release, you are forgiving not only yourself but all of humanity as well.
The activity at this very moment must be the only thing that matters, to which one is fully given. If one is concentrated, it matters little what one is doing. The important, as well as the unimportant things, assume a new dimension of reality, because they have one's full attention.
“The teacher is taught by his students, the actor is stimulated by his audience, the psychoanalyst is cured by his patient—provided they do not treat each other as objects, but are related to each other genuinely and productively.
On the other hand, when we have something to look forward to – even our favourite meal at dinnertime – there is something inside us that resists such leakage. The trick seems to be to induce this state of pleasant anticipation by the use of imagination, the exercise of inner freedom, even if you have nothing in particular to anticipate. (2011-05-30T22:58:59.000). Dreaming To Some Purpose . Random House. Kindle Edition.
The activity at this very moment must be the only thing that matters, to which one is fully given. If one is concentrated, it matters little what one is doing. The important, as well as the unimportant things, assume a new dimension of reality, because they have one's full attention.
the things I suggest exploring while you’re going through the healing process , because the idea is to get passionate about living life , and to have a reason to live , a reason to be healthy and strong and want a long life .
self note: Implimenting inspiring designs on paper with your own inpsiring or gentle words--inking kindness.
self note: For now focus on changing the inner-behaviour
self note 1: Let the body fall in love with it--sensing the pleasantness in subtleness of sounds.
We can talk knowledgeably about consciousness until the cows come home therefore but no change is talking place. We can research consciousness until hell freezes over and the moon drops out of the sky and we won’t have got any further – this isn’t a matter for research, as we have already said. Research is a crappy intellectual process and it never results in any type of real change. The only way change can take place is if we immerse wholeheartedly ourselves in the actual day-to-day experience of our lives without trying to intellectually understand it or manipulate (or improve) it in any way. We could call this research of course – it’s just ‘non-intellectual’ research. It is research we will never be able to publish any scientific papers about, or get any type of prestigious award for. No one ever got a prize for ‘being conscious’, after all…--NegativePsychologist
Who we (and everyone else) take ourselves to be in everyday life is something knowable and predictable – something that can be pointed at and readily recognized or labelled – whilst our true nature (we might say) is the very antithesis of this. Our situation is the reverse of what it ‘should be’, so to speak, and this is why it is a situation that is synonymous with suffering. We might image that our suffering can be ameliorated, and that we can live our everyday lives without it, but that is simply not possible. The ‘false version’ of who we are cannot ever escape suffering – we cling to the hope that matters can be turned around if we play our cards right, but there is no hope and this is why unconditional despair is so purifying…`;