let allSnippets = `Make it part of your creative process and draw, paint or dance the painful energy that is moving through your body. Does your emotion have a shape, a location in your body, a colour, a sound, or a visual symbol? Try to sense your emotions as an energy that needs to move, change and flow and transform.
Focus on love. Once you have shifted into your parasympathetic nervous system (rest and digest), move your focus to an animal, person or activity that you love. Flood love through your body until you feel calmer.
Yet a woman is willing to sit and wait very patiently for years for a man to develop from the state of restless activity, chatter and excitement, to a state of calm where he is able to just sit and be with her; where his attention stops its restless wandering and falls completely and utterly upon her.

“Oh, holy, holy, holy! I’m being cleansed, purified, glorified, washed in rivers of flowing gold; folded, crumpled, stretched, released… begins in the heart pulsating with love, then diving down, down, down, igniting the churning, flowing, simmering, flashing, exploding – thrilling me for hours on end.”
He needs, unconsciously, to endanger his body, to experiment with the representations of it, and he does this out of the most primitive form of solitude, isolation.

The cut-ups can be applied to other fields than writing. Dr Neumann in his Theory of Games and Economic Behavior introduces the cut-up method of random action into game and military strategy: assume that the worst has happened and act accordingly. If your strategy is at some point determined… by random factor your opponent will gain no advantage from knowing your strategy since he can not predict the move. The cut-up method could be used to advantage in processing scientific data. How many discoveries have been made by accident? We can not produce accidents to order. The cut-ups could add new dimension to films. Cut gambling scene in with a thousand gambling scenes all times and places. Cut back. Cut streets of the world. Cut and rearrange the word and image in films. There is no reason to accept a second-rate product when you can have the best. And the best is there for all. “Poetry is for everyone”…

All writing is in fact cut-ups. A collage of words read heard overhead. What else? Use of scissors renders the process explicit and subject to extension and variation. Clear classical prose can be composed entirely of rearranged cut-ups. Cutting and rearranging a page of written words introduces a new dimension into writing enabling the writer to turn images in cinematic variation. Images shift sense under the scissors smell images to sound sight to sound sound to kinesthetic. This is where Rimbaud was going with his color of vowels. And his “systematic derangement of the senses.” The place of mescaline hallucination: seeing colors tasting sounds smelling forms.



The problem of selfishness has a particular bearing on psychotherapy. The neurotic individual often is selfish in the sense that he is blocked in his relationship to others or overanxious about himself. This is to be expected since to be neurotic means that the integration of a strong self has not been achieved successfully. To be normal certainly does not mean that it has. It means, for the majority of well-adapted individuals that they have lost their own self at an early age and replaced it completely by a social self offered to them by society. They have no neurotic conflicts because they themselves, and, therefore, the discrepancy between their selves and the outside world has disappeared. Often the neurotic person is particularly unselfish, lacking in self-assertion and blocked in following his own aims. The reason for this unselfishness is essentially the same as for the selfishness. What he is practically always lacking is self-love. This is what he needs to become well. If the neurotic becomes well, he does not become normal in the sense of the conforming social self. He succeeds in realising his self, which never had been completely lost and for the preservation of which he was struggling by his neurotic symptoms. A theory, therefore, as Freud's on narcissism which rationalises the cultural pattern of denouncing self-love by identifying it with selfishness, can have but devastating effects therapeutically. It increases the taboo on self-love. Its effects can only be called positive if the aim of psychotherapy is not to help the individual to be himself; that is, free, spontaneous and creative - qualities conventionally reserved for artists - but to give up the fight for his self and conform to the cultural pattern peacefully and without the noise of a neurosis.

...Periodically the infant's gesture gives expression to a spontaneous impulse; the source of the gesture is the True Self, and the gesture indicates the existence of a potential True Self. 

'Treat a work of art like a prince: let it speak to you first.' ― Arthur Schopenhauer


Turning away from your familiar thoughts and attending to your body in a deeply meditative way will help you to see the next layer of subconscious material that is coming up for healing and integration.And, it should be noted, that if you do not pay attention to your emerging growth edge every day, it is possible to become emotionally accumulated and increasingly overwhelmed.

So long as a man chooses the imaginary outer freedoms, he is choosing the life of cattle, doomed to wander from one glittering attraction to another. If only a man could use his full attention ... give himself as a woman knows how to give herself! In essence, for a man to ach ieve what he really wants to achieve, he must learn from a woman to be a woman and, at the same time, maintain his sanity as he loses his gender­identification and discovers what a woman really is. If a woman hopes to accomplish her own fulfillment, she must find a real man who is willing to penetrate these deep inner secrets of a woman in order to attain the real depth of a relationship. Such a man is called an alchemist.

Introduce Safety. Remind yourself that you are safe at this moment. Saying, "I am safe right now" will introduce safety into your body.

If you care to experience another person completely, you would need to offer yourself to thatperson, and most people are not willing to do that. Usually, fear is blocking youfromletting go. You need to care to go all the way, 100percent. If any fear is present in that,you are blocked. You cannot give and you cannot listen. When fear is there,you will not feelsafe opening yourself to another, and you will cause a fight or something else to happen that will give a reason for not openingyourself to that person.

The only way to cut down the habit of fear, I realized, was to own it, experience it and feel it, then release it. With the help of the Sedona Method, I resolved to do just that. I started out small, releasing fear in the form of procrastination, worry and obsessive negative thoughts. Within days of doing this, miracles began to happen to point the way as I began to search for information on the Coward.  Finding very little on the Internet other than definitions and derivations of the word, I started there, releasing my fear of going down the wrong track.

Bringing the Woman to Life If we foUow the machine as a lover would unrelentingly fix his gaze upon his Beloved, 8llecl with astonishment, rapture and gratitude, the machine wiD come to life, awakening and responding to the power of adoration with a profound emotion which will in tum bring about our own ti'ansformatlon.

It can help develop an exquisite awareness of the middle way between the extremes. Here life is not a problem: it simply "is." This can help one deal more directly with life on life's terms

“Karma, then, is the arrangement of our life so that we learn. It is not some impersonal mechanism that just lands on us. In this sense, we go through everything we go through because something very deep within us requires it, in order for us to become who we ultimately are and need to be. It is, always, the ultimate reality of the universe flowing through us, being us, and coming to its own fruition in and through us.”

LOVE AS A SKILL hearts to it. Tonglen and its cousin practices are traditions and methods by which a therapist may overcome her fear of the cli-ent's experiences and use her skills to help transform the difficult ones. Thus, tonglen is a major example of the practice of spon-sorship that is central to self-relations psychotherapy. There are many ways in which the practice may be applied. The therapist may be doing it from the beginning of a session, opening the breath to receive into one's center whatever difficult experiences are being identified by the client, letting the positive experiences flow on the outbreath. In this way, the therapist nei-ther dissociates nor identifies with the problems of the clients, but finds ways to bring them into the moment-to-moment mindful-ness of the conversation, where new relationships and possi-bilities may emerge. At any point in the session, it may be introduced more for-mally to the client. This can be done in different ways. The next chapter describes the prototype method of self-relations therapy, where painful experiences are separated from alienating influ-ences and reconnected with resources. Summary If you are alive, the river of life will course through, bringing on a daily basis a multitude of experiences. You will be touched by every emotion known to humankind: happiness, sadness, an-ger, excitement, disgust, and so on. If you think life is out to get you, you're right; the basic question is what it wants from you. Self-relations assumes that life wants you to grow and develop as a human being. Thus, each experience it brings you is part of the growth process. The crucial skill indeed, the greatest gift of hu-manness is the capacity to skillfully love what is given to you

Do not label your emotions: Experience your emotions as they move, shift, dance, walk, breathe and paint without attaching words or stories.

Now, in the same way, if we could view the human biological machine as a woman, as our initiator, our true teacher, and we could effectively place our restless, wandering attention completely upon it, the machine would come to life , just as a woman comes to life when a man's attention is placed upon her, completely, absolutely, unwaveringly.

However, it is also best to consult a health care professional to make sure there is no problem with the heart. But most likely, the problem is the muscles. They have tightened up to defend against your attempt to use the body to manifest non-physical issues. Lastly, a psychological feeling is only sticky when manipulated into oblivion or something lasting. Undoing the manipulation may at first seem feels like torture. No worries, as long as you do not edit the unpleasantness, it will not remain for long because the nature of psychological feelings is to pass when looked at where they are conceived.

Do not waste a single day in vain, force yourself at least an hour a day efforts, or you will lose everything gained. Think of a rehearsal of his last hours as a ballet classes - have to do it all my life. I, on the day on this exercise takes four hours and in my youth I dedicated to him twice more.

Directed attention does not hypnotize or stupefy in the same way as does enslaved or dispersedattention. But it does not induce full awakening either. A person using directed attention can still bedeeply identified with die task in hand. His inner space is still completely occupied with whateverhe happens to be doing. He has no existence apart, no real being.

I'm a very early riser, and I don't like to miss that beautiful early morning light.--David Hockney

When we relax into what we are and where we are, we cease interfering in the process of life moving through us. Even as we’re moving and changing we’re not engaged in a fantasy of how we really should already be somewhere else or different from how we are.

Entering into a regular expressive arts practice, you can temporarily leave the troubled logic of your practical life behind, and enter into the "intuitive logic" of your imagination." Helpful symbolism for forward-growth arrives through right-brained creative play, imagination and intuitive exploration. Right brain imagination has its own intuitive logic that differs from linear left-brain thinking. Entering into your imagination through structured expressive practices, you can temporarily move away from problem bound states to resource surprisingly new solutions. 

In an expressive arts practice session, it is encouraged that you try two or more disciplines of artistic expression to deepen the meaning and momentum of your experience. You might, for example, transfer from painting to dancing, and then write a poem before your session is complete. As you move from one creative discipline to another, it is helpful to keep notes about how your process has deepened, enriched and progressed through each creative discipline.

Stand up. At the root of fear is abandonment, shame or betrayal from the past. Stand up strongly for your right to be treated well - in your imagination or out loud to yourself.

I felt totally unselfconscious and amazingly free. I felt the creative energy of the universe flowing through me; I was dancing on the living forefront of the Big Bang itself, where every moment was creative, magical and totally new. My kundalini was exploding; it was like a billion watts of electricity were flowing through a seventy five watt bulb.

It was like my mind had spilled out from inside of my skull and was manifesting and expressing itself synchronistically through events in the seemingly outer environment. What was happening in the seemingly outer world was magically related to what was going on inside of me. The boundary between dreaming and waking, between inner and outer, and between my self in here and your self out there, was dissolving. It was as if I had become lucid and was waking up inside of a dream.

All of this defining and analysing and naming and explaining comes down to the same thing – we are running away from radical uncertainty, we are running away from not knowing, we are running away from suchness. We don’t run away because we choose to – it wouldn’t be running away if that was the case. It would be the free expression of our volition. If we are in the grip of fear and we give way to the overpowering urge to run (as indeed we are very likely to do!) then this is of course not a free thing. There is no freedom in it. And yet there is a twist to this story that we don’t usually pay much (if any) attention to – there is a kink here. The kink in question is that although we are running away in a very unfree way, in a way that the fear is compelling us to do, we nevertheless experience ourselves as doing what we want to do.

An analogy for bodhichitta is the rawness of a broken heart. Sometimes this broken heart gives birth to anxiety and panic; sometimes to anger, resentment and blame. But under the hardness of that armor there is the tenderness of genuine sadness. This is our link with all those who have ever loved. This genuine heart of sadness can teach us great compassion. It can humble us when we’re arrogant and soften us when we are unkind. It awakens us when we prefer to sleep and pierces through our indifference. This continual ache of the heart is a blessing that when accepted fully can be shared with all.

There are barriers between the different selves. They live in the same house but do notknow each other. They are often elusive. The observing self, the self that wishes to awaken, may befar from popular with the other selves, who resent this lofty talk about higher states ofconsciousness and only want to be left in peace to go on with the life games that please them.

“Two people love each other only when they are quite capable of living without each other but choose to live with each other.”

In an expressive arts practice session, it is encouraged that you try two or more disciplines of artistic expression to deepen the meaning and momentum of your experience. You might, for example, transfer from painting to dancing, and then write a poem before your session is complete. As you move from one creative discipline to another, it is helpful to keep notes about how your process has deepened, enriched and progressed through each creative discipline.

Another characteristic of the self-renewing man is that he has mutually fruitful relations with other human beings. He is capable of accepting love and capable of giving it — both more difficult achievements than is commonly thought. He is capable of depending on others and of being depended upon. He can see life through another’s eyes and feel it through another’s heart…The man or woman who cannot achieve these relationships is imprisoned, cut off from a great part of the world of experience. The joy and suffering of those we love are part of our own experience. We feel their triumphs and defeats, their hopes and fears, their anger and pity, and our lives are richer for it…Love and friendship dissolve the rigidities of the isolated self, force new perspectives, alter judgments and keep in working order the emotional substratum on which all profound comprehension of human affairs must rest.

When you become emotionally triggered by other people , you can look within to see how you feel unsure about how to provide love and safety for yourself .


As the therapist feels the identity spoken by the client, she also feels how to be with it, how to vibrationallY con-nect with it, how to fit with it. This takes at least a few moments of silence, allowing the intelligence of the somatic self to receive and hold an identity. The therapist might bring the identity into her heart center or her belly center. Once this is done, Therapist A simply says, "Yes, I see that you are (your father's son

A student of Morihei Ueshiba, the founder of aikido, was purported to have once said to his teacher, "Sensei, you never lose your center." Ueshiba replied that he lost his center as much as the next person, he just returned to it quicker. Thus, as we give up hope of "holding on" to perfection and always being centered, we open up to the "bamboo tree" flexibility of the moving center to which we may always return .



The fifth, "Give us bread,"relates to the generation in the body of the high energy-substances on which the development ofhigher levels of consciousness depends. It is "daily bread" because it must be renewed daily. Thesixth and seventh triads, "Lead us not into Temptation," and "Deliver us from Evil," have so manymeanings that it would be out of place to go into them here. They refer to certain traps or catcheswhich divert the inner work from its proper ends.

Write poetry: If you want to use words, write poetry. Poetry expresses emotions in a looser, leaping, less logical way.

"You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face."

Regard Earth and Heaven as endowed with intelligence, since they do the work of intelligent beings.--Erich Fromm

Centering is helpful in many ways. In stressful situations indi-viduals often "give themselves away" to an outside source. By reclaiming one's center, one may reclaim oneself and move from reactivity to creative responsiveness. To sense where the self is projected, one may ask the question, "To what (or whom) do you give first attention?" First attention may be thought of like the cursor on a computer screen; it can be moved around wherever you want. For example, say a couple is fighting with each other. One points her finger and raises her voice. In reaction, the other's eyes fix in fear or anger on the partner, his body tense and rigid. Each partner gives "first attention" to the other, projecting it through the eyes and fixating it on the partner, who is then expe-rienced as "causing" one's behavior and experience. This is what is meant by giving oneself away. The alternative is to return first attention to one's center. The person might take a deep breath, open attention to the relational field, drop attention into his belly, and respond from a felt sense of his center. This is a learned skill, not an automatic response. It involves the rigorous training of an alternative to the "fight or flight" response wherein one loses one's center; this third way is called "flow" in aikido.

Be aware that totally acknowledging some of your suppressed thoughts and feelings can be felt like a trip to hell because it releases every unpleasant thought and feeling you ever buried.

The deeper the mind penetrates its own thought processes, the more clearly it understands that all forms of thinking are conditioned; therefore the mind is spontaneously very still - which does not mean that it is asleep. On the contrary, the mind is then extraordinarily alert, no longer being drugged by mantrams, by the repetition of words, or shaped by discipline. This state of silent alertness is also part of awareness; and if you go into it still more deeply you will find that there is no division between the person who is aware and the object of which he is aware.


My style? You can call it the art of fighting without fighting.--Bruce Lee

“We're not on our journey to save the world but to save ourselves. But in doing that you save the world. The influence of a vital person vitalizes.”

I used to have my course plotted out before me. Now I listen deeply in the moment for the ring of the true in every step I take. I am careful now with what I enter into, especially relationally. It’s easy, in fondness for connection and company, and in relation to the desires and emotions of others, to lose touch with the quiet voice within that helps us remain true. Periods of solitude are necessary. Feeling the purity of one’s own energy field is key. Feeling through any fear of disappointing others or resistance to what we might lose is also important. We must be willing to offer up all desired futures for the congruence of standing in what’s true. To live true is to sacrifice the comfort of the predictable world in order to live in the world to which we belong–here, now, one true step at a time.

The aim of an expressive arts practice is to explore two or more artistic disciplines within a single session. Regularly changing up your creative practices can keep you imaginatively nimble. Expanding your range of play by creating a drawing and then writing a poem about it, or dancing to a song you are singing can deepen your connection to your imaginal world.

Document an experience where you did something you didn't think you could do. We all have to do things that we're scared or unsure of sometimes. Use this activity as a chance to commemorate one instance in your life.

Paint or draw the energy of your emotions: Sensing into your body, invite the energies of your body to express and release through spontaneous painting or drawing.


Do what you prefer given your choices. Do it with zero expectations. Do it as long as you can than find something else you prefer to do -- a YT comment


`;
